ASEAN UNIVERSITY NETWORK
    QUALITY ASSURANCE

  GUIDE TO AUN-QA ASSESSMENT
      AT PROGRAMME LEVEL
          VERSION 4.0
     Guide
       to
    AUN-QA
  Assessment
       at
Programme Level
    Version 4.0
The Guide to AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level Version 4.0 is published by
the:

ASEAN University Network
17th Floor, Jamjuree 10 Building
Chulalongkorn University
Phayathai Road
Bangkok 10330
Thailand

© ASEAN University Network

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording and/or otherwise without the prior written permission of the
Executive Director, ASEAN University Network.

Version 4.0
Date of Publication: August 2020




                                       1|Page
Content

Section                                                         Page

Acknowledgement                                                   3

Foreword                                                          4

Preface                                                           5

1.    Introduction to AUN-QA Assessment Models                    6
1.1   Quality Assurance in Higher Education                       6
1.2   AUN-QA Assessment Models                                    6

2.    AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level                        16
2.1   Expected Learning Outcomes                                  16
2.2   Programme Structure and Content                             19
2.3   Teaching and Learning Approach                              23
2.4   Student Assessment                                          26
2.5   Academic Staff                                              28
2.6   Student Support Services                                    32
2.7   Facilities and Infrastructure                               35
2.8   Output and Outcomes                                         37

3.    Quality Assessment                                          40
3.1   Introduction to Quality Assessment                          40
3.2   Functions and Principles of Quality Assessment              40
3.3   Preparation of Self-Assessment Report                       41
3.4   Self-Assessment Report                                      43
3.5   Preparation of Quality Assessment                           44
3.6   Quality Assessment Process                                  47

4.    References                                                  61

5.    Appendices                                                  62

Appendix A – Self-rating for AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level
Appendix B – Template for AUN-QA Assessment Planning at Programme Level
Appendix C – Sample of AUN-QA Assessment Planning at Programme Level
Appendix D – Template for AUN-QA Assessment Report at Programme Level
Appendix E – Sample of AUN-QA Assessment Report at Programme Level
Appendix F – Feedback Report for AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level

Addendum - Supplementary Notes for the Assessment of Postgraduate Programmes
with Dominant Research Component




                                   2|Page
Acknowledgement

This Guide to AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level (Version 4.0) is prepared
and edited by Associate Professor Dr Tan Kay Chuan, AUN-QA Technical Team and
expert from the National University of Singapore, with input from members of the AUN-
QA Council and the Manual Version 4.0 Revision Committee as listed below.

   •   Professor Dr Satria Bijaksana, Institut Teknologi Bandung, Indonesia
   •   Professor Dr Shahrir Abdullah, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia, Malaysia
   •   Professor Dr Suzeini Binti Abd Halim, University of Malaya, Malaysia
   •   Professor Dr Arnel Onesimo O. Uy, De La Salle University, the Philippines
   •   Associate Professor Dr Gerardo Largoza, De La Salle University, the
       Philippines
   •   Dr. Wyona Patalinghug, De La Salle University, the Philippines
   •   Mr. Johnson Ong Chee Bin, Education Quality International, Singapore
   •   Associate Professor Chavalit Wongse-ek, Mahidol University, Thailand
   •   Associate Professor Dr Kamolwan Lueprasert, King Mongkut’s University of
       Technology North Bangkok, Thailand
   •   Associate Professor Dr Sompop Prathanturarug, Mahidol University, Thailand
   •   Associate Professor Dr Ngo Van Thuyen, Ho Chi Minh City University of
       Technology and Education, Viet Nam
   •   Choltis Dhirtathiti, Ph.D, AUN Executive Director




                                     3|Page
Foreword

Over the past year, hundreds of programmes have been assessed, beginning with a
large-scale survey of multiple stakeholders including assessors, administrators, and
faculty members. The Revision Committee collated the responses and revised the
Guide to AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level (version 4.0). The new Guide is
a simplified version of its predecessor and includes eight criteria and 53 requirements
(rather than the previous 11 criteria and 62 requirements). There is now a tighter focus
on matters under the control of the programme administrator and the factors
contributing to graduate outcomes. There is also a clearer separation between the
requirements for an AUN-QA Institutional Assessment and those for an AUN-QA
Programme Assessment.

Successive versions of the Guide have reflected developments in higher education.
Specifically, in the new version, outcome-based education features prominently.
Instilling innovation concepts and the need to develop an entrepreneurial mindset in
students are new requirements. Overall, there is a greater emphasis on the need to
obtain feedback and make improvements for embarking on the next cycle of planning
and carrying out educational quality assurance activities.

The Guide also outlines procedures for conducting an assessment and the writing of
an assessment report. These have been streamlined and simplified and should be
easier to implement or use. The requirements for document submission have been
reduced.

On behalf of the entire ASEAN University Network including the Network of AUN-QA,
I wish to acknowledge and express my sincere gratitude to Associate Professor Dr
Tan Kay Chuan, an AUN-QA Technical Team Member and AUN-QA expert from the
National University of Singapore (NUS) for leading the revision of the Guide to AUN-
QA Assessment at Programme Level. Special thanks also go to the AUN-QA Council
and members of the Revision Committee for their contributions.




Choltis Dhirathiti, Ph.D
Executive Director
ASEAN University Network




                                       4|Page
Preface

This book is the fourth version of the Guide to AUN-QA Assessment at Programme
Level. It documents the revised criteria and the processes of the AUN-QA assessment
at the programme level. The guidebook provides also associated resources including
templates and sample reports. It is divided into five chapters.

1. Introduction to AUN-QA Assessment Models. This section gives an overview
   of the AUN-QA assessment models.

2. AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level. This section describes the AUN-QA
   model and its criteria for assessment at the programme level.

3. Quality Assessment. This section provides a step-by-step guide for conducting
   an AUN-QA assessment at the programme level.

4. References. This section lists the references.

5. Appendices. This section contains additional resources including checklists,
   templates, and sample reports.




                                     5|Page
1.     Introduction to AUN-QA Assessment Models

1.1    Quality Assurance in Higher Education

Quality assurance (QA) in higher education is not a simple one-dimensional notion
about academic quality. In view of the varied needs and expectations of a wide range
of stakeholders, quality in higher education can be said to be multi-dimensional.

The World Declaration on Higher Education for the Twenty First Century: Vision and
Action (October 1998), Article 11, Qualitative Evaluation considers quality in higher
education to be:

      “A multi-dimensional concept, which should embrace all its functions and
      activities, teaching and academic programmes, research and scholarship,
      staffing, students, buildings, facilities, equipment, services to the
      community, and the academic environment. Internal self-evaluation and
      external review, conducted openly by independent specialists, if possible
      with international expertise, are vital for enhancing quality.”

To develop, implement, sustain, and improve the level of quality in higher education,
an institution needs to install a rigorous quality assurance system. The Regional
Report of Asia and the Pacific (UNESCO, 2003) defines quality assurance in higher
education as “the systematic management and assessment procedures to monitor
performance of higher educational institutions.”

1.2    AUN-QA Assessment Models

The ASEAN University Network (AUN) recognises the importance of quality in higher
education, and the need to develop a holistic quality assurance system to raise
academic standards and enhance education, research, and service among its
member universities. In 1998, it mooted the AUN-QA Network which led to the
development of the AUN-QA assessment models. Since then, the Network has been
promoting, developing, and implementing quality assurance practices based on an
empirical approach where quality assurance practices are tested, evaluated,
improved, and shared. The evolution of the AUN-QA Network and its development in
quality assurance is depicted in Figure 1.1.

The AUN-QA assessment models for higher education comprises of the strategic,
systemic, and functional dimensions (see Figure 1.2). These dimensions are
subjected to internal and external assessment.

Internal quality assurance ensures that an institution, system, or programme has
policies and mechanisms in place to ensure that its objectives and standards are met.

External quality assurance is performed by an organisation or individuals outside the
institution. Assessors evaluate the operation of an institution, system, or programme
in order to determine whether it meets agreed upon, predetermined standards.




                                     6|Page
                    Figure 1.1. Evolution of the AUN-QA Network




             Figure 1.2. AUN-QA Assessment Models for Higher Education

The AUN-QA assessment models are applicable to the diverse universities in ASEAN
countries, and are also aligned to both regional and international quality assurance
frameworks.



                                     7|Page
1.2.1 AUN-QA Assessment Model at the Institutional Level

The AUN-QA assessment model at the institutional level (version 2.0) comprises 25
criteria as illustrated in Figure 1.3.




       Figure 1.3. The AUN-QA Assessment Model at the Institutional Level (Version 2.0)


Strategic quality assurance begins with knowing the needs of one’s stakeholders.
These are translated into the university’s vision, mission, goals, and aims or
objectives. This means that quality assurance and quality assessment always begins
with the mission and goals (column 1 of Figure 1.3) and end with the achievements or
results that satisfy stakeholder needs (column 4 of Figure 1.3).

Column 2 of Figure 1.3 defines the quality assurance systems and policies that need
to be put in place. These include:

   -     Having a good internal quality assurance system
   -     Having internal and external quality assurance assessments
   -     Having a strong internal quality assurance information management system
   -     Having the ability to enhance one’s own quality assurance system.

The third column of Figure 1.3 lists the core activities of a university in:

   -     Education (curriculum design, teaching and learning, student services, etc)
   -     Research (publication, intellectual property management, etc)
   -     Service (community engagement).



                                          8|Page
For continuous improvement, universities implement effective QA systems and also
benchmark their practices to achieve educational excellence.

1.2.2 AUN-QA Model for an Internal Quality Assurance System

The AUN-QA model for an Internal Quality Assurance (IQA) system consists of the
following components (see Figure 1.4):

   -   Internal quality assurance framework
   -   Monitoring instruments
   -   Evaluation instruments
   -   Special QA processes to safeguard specific activities
   -   Specific QA instruments
   -   Follow-up activities for making improvements.




              Figure 1.4. AUN-QA Model for an Internal Quality Assurance System

An IQA system is the totality of the resources and information devoted to setting up,
maintaining, and improving the quality and standards of teaching, student learning
experiences, research, and service to the community. It is a system where the QA
mechanisms work to maintain and enhance the level of quality in higher education.

1.2.3 AUN-QA Assessment Model at the Programme Level

The AUN-QA assessment model at the programme level focuses on the quality of
educational programmes based on the following dimensions:

   -   Quality of input
   -   Quality of processes
   -   Quality of output.



                                      9|Page
The progression of the AUN-QA assessment model at the programme level from
version 1.0 to version 3.0, is documented in Figures 1.5, 1.6, and 1.7, respectively.




      Figure 1.5. AUN-QA Assessment Model at the Programme Level (Version 1.0)




      Figure 1.6. AUN-QA Assessment Model at the Programme Level (Version 2.0)




                                     10 | P a g e
Figure 1.7. AUN-QA Assessment Model at the Programme Level (Version 3.0)




                              11 | P a g e
1.2.4 AUN-QA Assessment Model at the Programme Level (Version 4.0)

Version 4.0 of the AUN-QA model for programme level assessment encompasses the
following eight criteria (see Figure 1.8):

   1. Expected Learning Outcomes
   2. Programme Structure and Content
   3. Teaching and Learning Approach
   4. Student Assessment
   5. Academic Staff
   6. Student Support Services
   7. Facilities and Infrastructure
   8. Output and Outcomes.




      Figure 1.8. AUN-QA Assessment Model at the Programme Level (Version 4.0)

The model begins with understanding the needs of an academic programme’s internal
and external stakeholders. These needs are formulated into the expected learning
outcomes which drive everything that the programme wishes to achieve (the left-most
column of Figure 1.8).

There are three rows in the middle of the model (Figure 1.8). The first row addresses
the issues of programme structure and content (hierarchy of courses throughout the
degree programme), the teaching and learning approach used, and how students are
assessed.

The second row considers the resources needed to run the programme. These are
academic staffing (promotion, performance management, research management,



                                     12 | P a g e
etc), student support services (support staff, library, clinic, social spaces, etc), and
hardware (classrooms, IT facilities, recreational facilities, etc).

The third row concerns the output of the programme. These are the quality of the
graduates, employment information, research output, stakeholder satisfaction, etc.

The right-most column addresses the achievements of the expected learning
outcomes and the programme.

The model encompasses also the fulfillment of stakeholder needs and a focus on
continuous improvement of the quality assurance system.              Furthermore,
benchmarking is employed to seek best-in-class practices, as supported by Gyll and
Ragland (2018).

Unlike the previous versions, version 4.0 embeds the quality enhancement
requirements into the criteria themselves. For example, the quality enhancement
requirement for criterion 1, the Expected Learning Outcomes, would be to see that
students are able to achieve them by the time of graduation. Similarly, the quality
enhancement requirements for criterion 2, Programme Structure and Content, would
be to ensure that the curriculum is reviewed periodically, remains up-to-date, and is
relevant to the needs of industry.

Quality enhancement requirements are a way of getting feedback to measure
improvement, or a cycle of planning, doing, checking the output against pre-defined
requirements, then acting or adjusting the requirements for the next iteration of
improvement. Thus, the PDCA concept is built into all eight criteria.

The eight criteria of the model are grouped as shown in Table 1.1.

          Programme                       Resources                   Results
 1.0 Expected Learning
     Outcomes                      5.0 Academic Staff          8.0 Output and
 2.0 Programme Structure and       6.0 Student Support             Outcomes
     Content                           Services
 3.0 Teaching and Learning         7.0 Facilities and
     Approach                          Infrastructure
 4.0 Student Assessment

Table 1.1. AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level Version 4.0 Criteria Grouping




                                      13 | P a g e
The changes from version 1.0 to version 4.0 are documented in Table 1.2 below.

     Version 1.0            Version 2.0               Version 3.0        Version 4.0
 1. Goals and            1. Expected             1. Expected          1. Expected
    Objectives;             Learning                Learning             Learning
    Expected Learning       Outcomes                Outcomes             Outcomes
    Outcomes
 2. Programme            2. Programme            2. Programme         2. Programme
    Specification           Specification           Specification        Structure and
 3. Programme            3. Programme            3. Programme            Content
    Content                 Structure and           Structure and
 4. Programme               Content                 Content
    Organisation
 5. Didactic Concept     4. Teaching and         4. Teaching and      3. Teaching and
    and Teaching/           Learning                Learning             Learning
    Learning Strategy       Strategy                Approach             Approach
 6. Student              5. Student              4. Student           4. Student
    Assessment              Assessment              Assessment           Assessment
 7. Staff Quality        6. Academic Staff       5. Academic Staff    5. Academic
                            Quality                 Quality              Staff
 8. Quality of Support   7. Support Staff        6. Support Staff     6. Student
    Staff                   Quality                 Quality              Support
                                                                         Services
 9. Student Quality     8. Student Quality       7. Student Quality
 10. Student Advice and 9. Student Advice           and Support
     Support                and Support
 11. Facilities and     10. Facilities and       8. Facilities and     7. Facilities and
     Infrastructure         Infrastructure          Infrastructure        Infrastructure
 12. Quality Assurance 11. Quality               8. Quality           <merged into the
     of Teaching/           Assurance of            Enhancement       other criteria>
     Learning Process       Teaching and
 13. Student Evaluation     Learning
 14. Curriculum Design      Process
 15. Staff Development 12. Staff                 6. Academic Staff    5. Academic Staff
     Activities             Development             Quality
                            Activities           7. Support Staff
                                                    Quality
 16. Feedback            13. Stakeholders       10. Quality           <merged into the
     Stakeholders            Feedback               Enhancement       other criteria>

 17. Output              14. Output             11. Output             8. Output and
 18. Stakeholders        15. Stakeholders                                 Outcomes
     Satisfaction            Satisfaction

        Table 1.2. Changes to AUN-QA Assessment Criteria at Programme Level




                                       14 | P a g e
The relationship among the eight criteria of version 4.0 is shown in Table 1.3 below.


  AUN-QA
                 1         2        3             4      5        6         7      8
  Criterion

                1.1
                          2.1
                1.2                 3.2          4.1
                          2.2                                    6.3               8.4
     1          1.3
                          2.3
                                    3.3          4.4     5.3
                                                                 6.4               8.5
                1.4                 3.4          4.5
                          2.4
                1.5
                          2.1
                          2.2
                                    3.2          4.1
                1.1       2.3
                                    3.3          4.2             6.3               8.4
     2          1.2       2.4
                                    3.4          4.3
                                                         5.3
                                                                 6.4               8.5
                1.3       2.5
                                    3.6          4.4
                          2.6
                          2.7
                                    3.1                                    7.1
                                    3.2                                    7.2
                1.1       2.1
                                    3.3                                    7.3
     3          1.2       2.2
                                    3.4
                                                 4.1     5.3
                                                                           7.4
                                                                                   8.5
                1.3       2.4
                                    3.5                                    7.5
                                    3.6                                    7.7
                                                 4.1
                                                 4.2
                          2.1       3.1
                1.1                              4.3
                          2.2       3.2                          6.3
     4          1.2
                          2.4       3.3
                                                 4.4     5.3
                                                                 6.4
                                                                           7.7     8.5
                1.3                              4.5
                          2.5       3.6
                                                 4.6
                                                 4.7
                                                         5.1
                          2.1
                                    3.1          4.1     5.2
                          2.2                                              7.1
                1.1                 3.2          4.2     5.3
                          2.3                                              7.2     8.3
                1.2                 3.3          4.3     5.4     6.3
     5          1.3
                          2.4
                                    3.4          4.4     5.5     6.4
                                                                           7.3     8.4
                          2.5                                              7.4     8.5
                1.4                 3.5          4.5     5.6
                          2.6                                              7.5
                                    3.6          4.6     5.7
                          2.7
                                                         5.8
                                                                           7.1
                                                                           7.2
                                                                 6.1
                                                                           7.3
                                    3.1                          6.2
                                                 4.1                       7.4     8.3
                                    3.2                          6.3
     6                    2.1
                                    3.3
                                                 4.2     5.3
                                                                 6.4
                                                                           7.5     8.4
                                                 4.3                       7.6     8.5
                                    3.4                          6.5
                                                                           7.7
                                                                 6.6
                                                                           7.8
                                                                           7.9
                                                                           7.1
                                                                           7.2
                                                                           7.3
                                    3.2                          6.2       7.4
     7          1.4                 3.3                          6.5       7.5     8.3
                                    3.4                          6.6       7.6
                                                                           7.7
                                                                           7.8
                                                                           7.9
                                                                           7.1     8.1
                          2.1       3.2          4.2     5.2               7.2     8.2
                1.4                                              6.3
     8          1.5
                          2.5       3.3          4.3     5.3
                                                                 6.4
                                                                           7.3     8.3
                          2.6       3.4          4.6     5.7               7.4     8.4
                                                                           7.5     8.5


          Table 1.3. Relationship among the eight AUN-QA Criteria of Version 4.0


                                          15 | P a g e
2.       AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level

2.1      AUN-QA Criterion 1 – Expected Learning Outcomes

Requirements


     1.1. The programme to show that the expected learning outcomes are
          appropriately formulated in accordance with an established learning
          taxonomy, are aligned to the vision and mission of the university, and are
          known to all stakeholders.
     1.2. The programme to show that the expected learning outcomes for all courses
          are appropriately formulated and are aligned to the expected learning
          outcomes of the programme.
     1.3. The programme to show that the expected learning outcomes consist of both
          generic outcomes (related to written and oral communication, problem-
          solving, information technology, teambuilding skills, etc) and subject specific
          outcomes (related to knowledge and skills of the study discipline).
     1.4. The programme to show that the requirements of the stakeholders, especially
          the external stakeholders, are gathered, and that these are reflected in the
          expected learning outcomes.
     1.5. The programme to show that the expected learning outcomes are achieved
          by the students by the time they graduate.


Explanation

An outcome-based education (OBE) can be described as a way in which a curriculum
is defined, organised, and directed based on all the things that learners would learn
and demonstrate successfully when they complete a study programme. The focus of
OBE is on the results of learning, where the knowledge, skills, and attitudes that
learners are expected to master, are clearly identified and expressed as expected
learning outcomes.

Expected learning outcomes, which are formulated from the needs of stakeholders,
form the starting point in the design of an academic programme. They are concerned
with the achievement of the learner rather than the intention of the teacher, which are
often written as aims, goals, or objectives of the programme. Learning outcomes
should be written in a way where learning is translated into observable and
measurable results which can be demonstrated and assessed.

Table 2.1 shows measurement of the extent to which programme learning outcomes
(PLOs) have been achieved by students at the time of graduation. It is important that
the data for the table are provided by the students. This gives a more reliable measure
of PLO achievement. It makes less sense for the data to be provided by the
programme administrators or the academic staff since these stakeholders would have
a vested interest in seeing good achievement of the learning outcomes. Alternatively,
the data can be provided by alumni and employers within 6-24 months after
graduation.



                                         16 | P a g e
As shown in Table 2.1, the use of an “X” and a percentage is one means of denoting
the achievement. Other schemes can be used also. For example, use “I” to denote
an Introductory achievement of a particular LO; “M” to denote Moderate achievement;
and “F” to denote Full achievement.



                                                    Achievement of LO


            Programme Learning
                                          25%        50%      75%       100%
                 Outcome

                    PLO1                               X       X

                    PLO2                                                 X

                    PLO3                    X          X       X

                    PLO4                                       X

                    PLO5                               X       X         X

                     …

                     …

 Table 2.1. Extent of Achievement of Programme Learning Outcomes by the Time
                             that Students Graduate


Diagnostic Questions

   −   What is the purpose of the study programme?
   −   What are the expected learning outcomes?
   −   How are the expected learning outcomes formulated?
   −   Do the expected learning outcomes reflect the vision and mission of the
       university, the faculty, and the department?
   −   Does the labour market set specific requirements for the graduates to meet?
   −   To what extent is the content of the programme tuned to the needs of the labour
       market?
   −   Are there well-defined job profiles?
   −   How are the expected learning outcomes made known to staff and students?
   −   Are the expected learning outcomes measurable? If Yes, how are they
       measured?
   −   To what extent have the expected learning outcomes been achieved?
   −   Are the expected learning outcomes reviewed periodically?
   −   How are the expected learning outcomes translated into concrete requirements
       (i.e., the knowledge, skills, and attitude requirements) of the graduates?



                                     17 | P a g e
Sources of Evidence

  -   Programme and course specifications
  -   Course brochure, prospectus, bulletin
  -   Skills matrix
  -   Stakeholder input
  -   University and faculty websites
  -   Curriculum review minutes and documents
  -   Accreditation and benchmarking reports.




                                 18 | P a g e
2.2       AUN-QA Criterion 2 – Programme Structure and Content

Requirements


 2.1. The specifications of the programme and all its courses are shown to be
      comprehensive, up-to-date, and made available and communicated to all
      stakeholders.
 2.2. The design of the curriculum is shown to be constructively aligned with
      achieving the expected learning outcomes.
 2.3. The design of the curriculum is shown to include feedback from stakeholders,
      especially external stakeholders.
 2.4. The contribution made by each course in achieving the expected learning
      outcomes is shown to be clear.
 2.5. The curriculum to show that all its courses are logically structured, properly
      sequenced (progression from basic to intermediate to specialised courses), and
      are integrated.
 2.6. The curriculum to have option(s) for students to pursue major and/or minor
      specialisations.
 2.7. The programme to show that its curriculum is reviewed periodically following
      an established procedure and that it remains up-to-date and relevant to
      industry.


Explanation

The specifications of an academic programme, which include the courses
specifications, describe the expected learning outcomes in terms of knowledge, skills,
and attitudes. They help students to understand the teaching and learning methods
that enable the outcomes to be achieved. Also explained are the assessment
methods.

The programme specifications is a set of documents that describes the study
programme. It usually includes the following items:

      -   A summary of the programme aims and intended learning outcomes
      -   An outline of the course structure
      -   A matrix that shows how the programme learning outcomes are achieved
          through the courses
      -   A set of course specifications.

The programme specifications serve the following purposes:

      -   As a source of information for potential and current students seeking to
          understand the programme or in deciding whether to enroll in it.
      -   As a source of information for employers, particularly on the knowledge and
          transferable skills developed by the programme.
      -   As a source of information for professional and statutory bodies that accredit
          higher education programmes, which can lead to a profession or regulated



                                        19 | P a g e
       occupation. Programme specifications should identify those aspects of a
       programme that are designed to meet the requirements of relevant bodies.
   -   As a source of information for institutional and teaching teams to promote
       discussion and reflection on new and existing programmes, and to ensure that
       there is common understanding of the expected learning outcomes. The
       programme specifications should enable the programme to satisfy themselves
       that the expected learning outcomes can be achieved and demonstrated. The
       programme specifications can serve as a reference point for internal review and
       monitoring of its performance.
   -   As a source of information for academic reviewers and external examiners who
       need to understand the aims and intended outcomes of the programme.
   -   As a basis for gaining feedback from students or recent graduates on the extent
       to which the expected learning outcomes of the programme have been
       achieved.

The information in the programme specifications include the below:

   -   Awarding body/institution
   -   Teaching institution (if different)
   -   Details of accreditation by professional or statutory bodies
   -   Name of the final award
   -   Programme title
   -   Expected learning outcomes of the programme
   -   Admission criteria or requirements
   -   Relevant benchmark reports, external and internal reference points, that may
       be used to provide information on programme learning outcomes
   -   Programme structure and requirements including levels, courses, credits, etc
   -   The date of writing the programme specifications.

The information to be included in the courses specifications include the below:

   -   Course title
   -   Course requirements such as pre-requisites, credits, etc
   -   Expected learning outcomes of the course in terms of knowledge, skills, and
       attitude
   -   Teaching, learning, and assessment methods that enable the expected
       learning outcomes to be achieved
   -   Course description, outline, or syllabus
   -   Details of student assessment
   -   Date on which the course specification was written or revised.

The curriculum should be designed so that the teaching and learning methods and
student assessment, support the achievement of the expected learning outcomes
(Lam and Tsui, 2013). Important is the concept of constructive alignment (Biggs,
2003). Constructive refers to the concept that students construct meaning through
relevant learning activities. Alignment refers to the situation when teaching and
learning activities and student assessment are aligned to achieve the expected
learning outcomes.

Constructive alignment in any course of study involves:


                                     20 | P a g e
  -   Defining expected learning outcomes that are measurable
  -   Selecting teaching and learning methods that are likely to ensure that the
      expected learning outcomes are achieved
  -   Assessing how well the students have achieved the expected learning
      outcomes as intended.


Diagnostic Questions (Programme Information)

  − Are the expected learning outcomes translated into the programme and its
    courses?
  − What information is documented in the programme and course specifications?
  − Are the courses specifications standardised throughout the entire
    programme?
  − Are the programme specifications published and made available to
    stakeholders?
  − Are the programme and courses specifications published online?
  − What is the process for reviewing the programme and courses specifications?
  − Does the content of the programme reflect the expected learning outcomes?
  − How are the courses in the programme structured so that there is coherence
    and a seamless relationship from the basic to the specialised courses?
  − Is there is a proper balance between the specific and the general courses?
  − Is the content of the programme up-to-date?
  − What is the explanation for the programme structure?
  − Has the programme changed structurally over the last five to ten years? If so,
    why?
  − Does the programme promote diversity, student mobility, and/or cross-border
    education?
  − Is there a logical relationship among the basic courses, intermediate courses,
    and specialised courses?
  − What is the duration of the programme?
  − What is the duration and sequence of each course? Is it sequencing logical?
  − What benchmarks are used in designing the programme and its courses?
  − How are the teaching and learning methods and student assessment selected
    to align with the expected learning outcomes?

Diagnostic Questions (Curriculum Design and Evaluation)

  − Who is responsible for designing the curriculum?
  − How are the academic staff and students involved in the curriculum design?
  − What are the roles of the stakeholders in the design and review of the
    curriculum?
  − How does curriculum innovation come about? Who takes the initiative? On the
    basis of what signals?
  − Who is responsible for implementing the curriculum?
  − When designing the curriculum, is benchmarking with other institutions done?
  − In which international networks does the programme participate?
  − With which institutions abroad do student exchanges take place?
  − Is the programme recognised abroad?


                                   21 | P a g e
  −   Is a structured quality assurance procedure in place?
  −   Who are involved in the internal and external quality assurance activities?
  −   Is there a curriculum committee? What is its role?
  −   Is there an examination committee? What is its role?
  −   How is the programme and its courses evaluated?
  −   Is the evaluation done systematically?
  −   How is research used to improve teaching and learning?
  −   How are students involved in evaluating the curriculum and its courses?
  −   How and to whom are the evaluation results made known?
  −   What actions are taken to improve the curriculum and its design process?


Sources of Evidence

  -   Programme and courses specifications
  -   Course brochure, prospectus, bulletin
  -   Skills matrix
  -   Stakeholder input and feedback
  -   University and faculty websites
  -   Curriculum review minutes and documents
  -   Accreditation and benchmarking reports
  -   Curriculum map
  -   Curriculum review minutes and documents
  -   Accreditation and benchmarking reports.




                                     22 | P a g e
2.3.   AUN-QA Criterion 3 – Teaching and Learning Approach

Requirements


 3.1. The educational philosophy is shown to be articulated and communicated to
      all stakeholders. It is also shown to be reflected in the teaching and learning
      activities.
 3.2. The teaching and learning activities are shown to allow students to participate
      responsibly in the learning process.
 3.3. The teaching and learning activities are shown to involve active learning by
      the students.
 3.4. The teaching and learning activities are shown to promote learning, learning
      how to learn, and instilling in students a commitment for life-long learning (e.g.,
      commitment to critical inquiry, information-processing skills, and a willingness
      to experiment with new ideas and practices).
 3.5. The teaching and learning activities are shown to inculcate in students, new
      ideas, creative thought, innovation, and an entrepreneurial mindset.
 3.6. The teaching and learning processes are shown to be continuously improved
      to ensure their relevance to the needs of industry and are aligned to the
      expected learning outcomes.


Explanation

The approach to teaching and learning is often dictated by the educational
philosophy of the university. Educational philosophy can be defined as a set of
related beliefs that influence what and how students are taught. It defines the
purpose of education, the role of teachers and students, what should be taught, and
using what methods.

Quality learning is understood as involving the active construction of meaning by
students, and not just something that is imparted by the teacher. It is a deep
approach to learning that seeks to make meaning and to achieve understanding.
Quality learning is also dependent on the approach that learners take when learning.
This in turn is dependent on the concepts that learners hold of learning, what they
know about their own learning, and the learning strategies that they use.

Quality learning embraces the principles of learning. Students learn best in a
relaxed, supportive, and cooperative learning environment. In promoting
responsibility in learning, teachers should:

   -   Create a teaching-learning environment that enables individuals to participate
       responsibly in the learning process.
   -   Provide curricula that are flexible and enable learners to make meaningful
       choices in terms of subject content, programme routes, approaches to
       assessment, and modes and duration of study.

The teaching and learning approach should promote learning, learning how to learn,
and instill in students a commitment to lifelong learning (e.g., commitment to critical


                                       23 | P a g e
inquiry, information processing skills, a willingness to experiment with new ideas and
practices, etc).

In line with the overarching purpose of higher education in fostering holistic education,
quality learning results when students acquire the following skills:

   − The ability to discover knowledge for oneself. Learners have research skills
     and the ability to analyse and synthesize the material that they gather. Learners
     understand various learning strategies and can choose the most appropriate
     strategy for the task at hand.
   − The ability to retain knowledge long term. An approach to learning that
     emphasizes the construction of meaning rather than memorising facts for
     retention.
   − The ability to perceive relations between old and new knowledge. Quality
     learning is always trying to bring information from various resources together.
   − The ability to create new knowledge. Quality learners discover what others
     have learnt and documented. They connect that knowledge and their own
     experiences in order to develop new insights.
   − The ability to apply one’s knowledge to solve problems. Quality learning is
     always about figuring out how to apply knowledge gained to solve real-world
     problems.
   − The ability to communicate one’s knowledge to others. Quality learners form
     and substantiate independent thought and action in a coherent and articulate
     manner.
   − An eagerness to know more. Quality learners are life-long learners.

The conditions necessary for quality learning are:

   − Quality learning occurs when learners are ready – in cognitive and emotional
     terms – to meet the demands of the learning task.
   − Quality learning occurs when learners have a reason for learning.
   − Quality learning occurs when learners explicitly relate previous knowledge to
     new knowledge.
   − Quality learning occurs when learners are active participants in the learning
     process.
   − Quality learning occurs when the learning environment offers good support.

There is no single teaching and learning method that is valid for all situations. Thought
must be given to the teaching and learning approach behind the curriculum.


Diagnostic Questions (Teaching)

   − Is there an explicit educational philosophy shared by all the teaching staff?
   − Is diversity of the learning environment promoted, including student
     exchanges?
   − Is the teaching provided by other departments (e.g., for general courses)
     satisfactory?
   − Are the teaching and learning methods used aligned with the expected learning
     outcomes?


                                       24 | P a g e
   − How is technology used in the teaching and learning activities?
   − How is the teaching and learning approach evaluated? Do the chosen methods
     fit into the learning outcomes of the courses? Is there sufficient variety in the
     methods?
   − Are there any circumstances that prevent the desired teaching and learning
     methods from being used (number of students, infrastructure, teaching skills,
     etc.)?
   − Do the teaching and learning activities enhance life-long learning and help
     develop an entrepreneurial mindset?

Diagnostic Questions (Research)

   − When do students come into contact with research for the first time?
   − How are research methodologies introduced to students?
   − How is the relationship between education and research expressed in the
     programme?
   − How are research findings applied in the programme?
   − How do students/ staff collaborate with industry for research?

Diagnostic Questions (Practical Training)

   −   Is practical training a compulsory or optional part of the programme?
   −   How many credits are allocated to these activities?
   −   Is the level of the practical training and/or community service satisfactory?
   −   What benefits do communities gain from the service provided by the
       programme?
   −   What benefits do employers and students gain from the practical training?
   −   Are there any bottlenecks in the practical training? If so, what are the causes?
   −   How are students coached to do well in their practical training?
   −   How is the assessment for practical training done?


Sources of Evidence

   -   Educational philosophy
   -   Evidence of action learning such as project, practical training, assignment,
       industrial attachment, etc
   -   Student feedback
   -   Online learning portal
   -   Programme and courses specifications
   -   Internship reports
   -   Community involvement
   -   Memorandum of Understanding (MOU).




                                      25 | P a g e
2.4       AUN-QA Criterion 4 – Student Assessment

Requirements


 4.1. A variety of assessment methods are shown to be used and are shown to be
      constructively aligned to achieving the expected learning outcomes and the
      teaching and learning objectives.
 4.2. The assessment and assessment-appeal policies are shown to be explicit,
      communicated to students, and applied consistently.
 4.3. The assessment standards and procedures for student progression and
      degree completion, are shown to be explicit, communicated to students, and
      applied consistently.
 4.4. The assessments methods are shown to include rubrics, marking schemes,
      timelines, and regulations, and these are shown to ensure validity, reliability,
      and fairness in assessment.
 4.5. The assessment methods are shown to measure the achievement of the
      expected learning outcomes of the programme and its courses.
 4.6. Feedback of student assessment is shown to be provided in a timely manner.
 4.7. The student assessment and its processes are shown to be continuously
      reviewed and improved to ensure their relevance to the needs of industry and
      alignment to the expected learning outcomes.


Explanation

Student assessment is one of the most important element in higher education. The
outcome has a profound effect on student career. It is, therefore, important that
assessment be carried out professionally at all times and take into account the
extensive knowledge that exists on testing and examination processes.
Assessment also provides valuable information for universities about the efficiency
of teaching and learner support. Student assessment is expected to:

      -   Be designed to measure the achievement of the expected learning
          outcomes.
      -   Be fit for purpose, whether diagnostic, formative, or summative; have clear
          and published grading and marking criteria.
      -   Be undertaken by people who understand the role of assessment in the
          students’ progression towards achieving the knowledge and skills
          associated with their intended qualification; where possible, not relying on
          the evaluation of just one examiner.
      -   Take account of all the possible consequences of examination regulations.
      -   Have clear regulations covering student absence, illness, and other
          mitigating circumstances.
      -   Ensure that assessment is conducted securely in accordance with the
          university’s stated procedures.
      -   Be subjected to administrative verification in ensuring the effectiveness of
          the procedures.
      -   Inform students about the assessment being used for their programme, what
          examinations or other assessment methods they will be subjected to, what


                                       26 | P a g e
       will be expected of them, and the criteria that will be applied to assess their
       performance.


Diagnostic Questions

   − Is entry assessment carried out on new and transfer students?
   − Is exit assessment carried out on departing (graduating) students?
   − To what extent do the assessments and examinations cover the content of the
     courses and the programme (content validity)?
   − To what extent do the assessments and examinations cover the objectives of
     the courses and of the programme as a whole (construct validity)?
   − Is the assessment criterion-referenced?
   − Are a variety of assessment methods used? What are they?
   − Are the pass/fail criteria clear?
   − Are the assessment/examination regulations clear?
   − Are there safeguards in place to ensure objectivity?
   − Are the students satisfied with the assessment procedures? What about
     complaints from students?
   − Do clear rules exist for re-assessment and are students satisfied with these?

A special form of student assessment is the final project (dissertation, thesis, or
project). This requires students to demonstrate their knowledge and skills and their
ability to manipulate the knowledge in a new situation. The following considerations
are important:

   − Do clear regulations exist for the final project?
   − What criteria have been formulated to assess the final project?
   − What does the preparation for producing the final project involve (in terms of
     content, methods, and skills)?
   − Is the level of the final project satisfactory?
   − Do any bottlenecks exist for producing the final projects? If so, why?
   − How are students coached to do well in their final projects?


Sources of Evidence

   -   Sample of in-course assessment, project work, thesis, final examination, etc
   -   Assessment/Marking rubrics
   -   Moderation process
   -   Appeal procedure
   -   Programme and courses specifications
   -   Examination regulations.




                                     27 | P a g e
2.5       AUN-QA Criterion 5 – Academic Staff

Requirements


 5.1. The programme to show that academic staff planning (including succession,
      promotion, re-deployment, termination, and retirement plans) is carried out to
      ensure that the quality and quantity of the academic staff fulfil the needs for
      education, research, and service.
 5.2. The programme to show that staff workload is measured and monitored to
      improve the quality of education, research, and service.
 5.3. The programme to show that the competences of the academic staff are
      determined, evaluated, and communicated.
 5.4. The programme to show that the duties allocated to the academic staff are
      appropriate to qualifications, experience, and aptitude.
 5.5. The programme to show that promotion of the academic staff is based on a
      merit system which accounts for teaching, research, and service.
 5.6. The programme to show that the rights and privileges, benefits, roles and
      relationships, and accountability of the academic staff, taking into account
      professional ethics and their academic freedom, are well defined and
      understood.
 5.7. The programme to show that the training and developmental needs of the
      academic staff are systematically identified, and that appropriate training and
      development activities are implemented to fulfil the identified needs.
 5.8. The programme to show that performance management including reward and
      recognition is implemented to assess academic staff teaching and research
      quality.


Explanation

A competent academic staff is able to:

      -   Design and deliver a coherent teaching and learning curriculum.
      -   Apply a range of teaching and learning methods and select the most
          appropriate assessment methods to achieve the expected learning outcomes.
      -   Develop and use a variety of instructional media.
      -   Monitor and evaluate their own teaching performance and evaluate courses
          that they deliver.
      -   Reflect upon their own teaching practices.
      -   Conduct research and provide services to benefit stakeholders.

The academic staff is the single most important learning resource available to most
students. It is crucial that those who teach have full knowledge and understanding
of the subject that they are teaching, have the necessary skills and experience to
communicate their knowledge and understanding effectively to students in a range
of teaching contexts, and can access feedback on their own performance.

The quality of a university depends not only on the quality of its programmes but also
on the quality of its academic staff. The quality of the academic staff encompass


                                      28 | P a g e
qualification, subject matter expertise, experience, teaching skills, and professional
ethics. Academic staffing covers full-time and part-time professors, lecturers, and
visiting teaching staff. Besides the quality of the academic staff, the university has to
also determine the quantity of the academic staff required to meet the demands and
needs of the students. Oftentimes full-time equivalent (FTE) and staff-to-student ratio
are used to determine the needed number of academic staff.

Full-Time Equivalent

In calculating the FTE of an academic staff, universities should define what constitutes
full-time student loads and faculty teaching loads including part-time students and
faculty at their percentage of full-time loads.

There are different ways of calculating FTE and universities should state the method,
parameters, and assumptions used. One of the methods is based on the investment
of time. For example, if 1.0 FTE is equal to 40 hours per week (full-time
employment), then the FTE of an academic staff member with a teaching load of 8
hours per week would be 0.2 (i.e., 8/40). The investment of time method can also be
used for calculating FTE for students. For example, if 1.0 FTE student has to attend
20 hours of lesson a week, then the FTE of a part-time student with 10 hours of
lesson a week would be 0.5 (i.e., 10/20).

Another method to calculate FTE is based on teaching load. For example, if the official
full-time teaching load of an academic staff is 4 courses per semester, then each
course accounts for 0.25 FTE. If an academic staff member is assigned 2 courses per
semester, then the FTE will be 0.5 (i.e., 2 x 0.25 FTE).

Similarly, student study load can be used to calculate the FTE of students. For
example, if 1.0 FTE student has to take 24 credits load per semester, then the FTE of
a student with 18 credits load per semester would be 0.75 (i.e., 18/24). Table 2.2.
below is used to specify the number of academic staff and their FTEs in the last 5
academic years for a programme.

 Category              M         F              Total               Percentage of
                                         Headcount       FTE            PhD
 Professors
 Associate/
 Assistant
 Professors
 Full-time
 Lecturers
 Part-time
 Lecturers
 Visiting
 Professors/
 Lecturers
 Total

    Table 2.2. Number of Academic Staff (specify reference date and method of
                   calculation used for FTE of academic staff)


                                       29 | P a g e
Diagnostic Questions (Academic Staff)

   − Are academic staff members competent and qualified for their jobs?
   − Are the competencies and expertise of the academic staff adequate for
     delivering the programme?
   − What are the challenges that the university meet or encounter with regards to
     human resource, such as age distribution, difficulties in filling vacancies or in
     attracting qualified academic staff? How does the university handle these
     challenges?
   − How many Master’s and PhD degree holders are there among the academic
     staff?
   − What policy is pursued with regard to the employment of academic staff, both
     in teaching and research?
   − Is conscious effort made to involve professors in mentoring and/or training the
     junior or new academic staff?
   − Is a policy in place with regard to involvement in seminars, supervision of final
     papers, practical training, or internship?
   − Are academic staff members satisfied with the teaching load?
   − Is the staff-to-student ratio satisfactory?
   − What is the accountability of the academic staff in terms of roles,
     responsibilities, academic freedom, and professional ethics?
   − What types of research activities are carried out by academic staff? Are these
     activities aligned to the vision and mission of the university and faculty?
   − What is the level of research grants and how is it utilised?

Diagnostic Questions (Staff Management)

   −   How is manpower planning for the academic staff carried out?
   −   Does the department have a clearly formulated staff management structure?
   −   Are recruitment and promotion criteria of the academic staff established?
   −   Is there a performance management system?
   −   What is the succession plan for key appointment holders?
   −   What are the career development plans for the academic staff?
   −   Are academic staff members satisfied with the HR policy?
   −   What is the future development of the HR policy for the academic staff?
   −   How are the academic staff members prepared for the teaching task?
   −   Is the teaching delivered by the academic staff supervised and assessed?

Diagnostic Questions (Training and Development)

   − Who is responsible for the academic staff training and development activities?
   − What are the training and development processes and plans? How are the
     training needs identified?
   − Do the training and development plans reflect the university and faculty mission
     and objectives?
   − Is there a system to develop strategic and technical competencies of the
     academic staff?
   − What are the training hours and number of training places for the academic staff
     per year?



                                     30 | P a g e
  − What percentage of payroll or budget is allocated for training the academic
    staff?


Sources of Evidence

  -   Manpower plan
  -   Faculty distribution in terms of age, gender, expertise, etc
  -   Career and succession plans
  -   Recruitment criteria
  -   Staff qualifications
  -   Training needs analysis
  -   Training and development plan and budget
  -   Peer review and appraisal system
  -   Student feedback
  -   Award and recognition schemes
  -   Staff workload
  -   Organisation chart
  -   HR policies
  -   Staff handbook
  -   Job description
  -   Employment contract
  -   Research and publication data
  -   National and/or professional licence/certificate.




                                     31 | P a g e
2.6   AUN-QA Criterion 6 – Student Support Services

Requirements


 6.1. The student intake policy, admission criteria, and admission procedures to the
      programme are shown to be clearly defined, communicated, published, and
      up-to-date.
 6.2. Both short-term and long-term planning of academic and non-academic
      support services are shown to be carried out to ensure sufficiency and quality
      of support services for teaching, research, and community service.
 6.3. An adequate system is shown to exist for student progress, academic
      performance, and workload monitoring.            Student progress, academic
      performance, and workload are shown to be systematically recorded and
      monitored. Feedback to students and corrective actions are made where
      necessary.
 6.4. Co-curricular activities, student competition, and other student support
      services are shown to be available to improve learning experience and
      employability.
 6.5. The competences of the support staff rendering student services are shown to
      be identified for recruitment and deployment. These competences are shown
      to be evaluated to ensure their continued relevance to stakeholders needs.
      Roles and relationships are shown to be well-defined to ensure smooth
      delivery of the services.
 6.6. Student support services are shown to be subjected to evaluation,
      benchmarking, and enhancement.


Explanation

The quality of an academic programme depends very much on the interaction between
staff and students. However, academic staff cannot perform their roles well without
good quality services provided by the support staff. These are the persons who
manage the libraries, laboratories, computer facilities, and other student services.
Table 2.3. below is used to specify the number of support staff available in the last 5
academic years.

                                 Highest Educational Attainment
 Support Staff                                                                Total
                           High        Bachelor      Master      Doctoral
                          School
 Student Services
 Personnel
 (enumerate the
 services)
         Total


            Table 2.3. Number of Support Staff (specify reference date)



                                      32 | P a g e
Quality of output depends very much quality of input. This means that the quality of
the entering students is important.

Student intake:

-    Give a summary of the intake of first year students using Table 2.4.
-    Give a summary of the total number of students enrolled in the programme using
     Table 2.5.

                                                      Applicants
    Academic Year
                        No. Applied               No. Offered      No. Admitted/Enrolled




          Table 2.4. Intake of First-year Students (last five academic years)


                                                      Students
    Academic Year       1st      2nd        3rd          4th       >4th         Total
                       Year     Year       Year         Year       Year




            Table 2.5. Total Number of Students (last five academic years)

Diagnostic Questions (Student Quality)

     − How is student intake monitored and analysed?
     − How are students selected?
     − What policy is pursued with regard to the intake of students? Does it aim to
       increase the intake or to stabilise it? Why?
     − What measures are taken to influence the quality and the size of the intake?
       What effect does these measures have?
     − How does the programme take into account the level of achievement of entering
       students?

Diagnostic Questions (Student Study Load and Performance)

     − Does the department have a credit-point system? How are the credit points
       calculated?
     − Is the study load divided equally across and within each academic year?
     − Can an average student complete the programme in the planned duration?
     − What are the indicators used to monitor student progress and performance?


                                       33 | P a g e
Diagnostic Questions (Student Support)

    − Does the department have a monitoring system for recording study progress
      and following graduates (for example, tracer study)?
    − How is the data of the monitoring system used?
    − What role do the academic staff play in informing and coaching students and
      integrating them into the programme?
    − How are students informed about their study plan?
    − Is special attention paid to coaching first year students and underperforming
      students? If so, how does it work?
    − Is specific support given to provide study skills for students with problems?
    − Is separate attention paid to coaching of advanced students?
    − Is assistance given in completing the final year project? Where can students
      who get stuck with their practical training or final project get help?
    − How are students advised on problems concerning course options, change of
      options, interruption, or termination of study?
    − How is information provided to students on career prospects?
    − Are the reasons examined regarding students who take longer than expected
      to complete the programme?
    − Are students satisfied with the support services provided?

Diagnostic Questions (Support Staff)

    −   Are the support staff members competent and qualified for their jobs?
    −   Are the competencies and expertise of the support staff adequate?
    −   What difficulties are there in attracting qualified support staff?
    −   What policy is pursued with regard to the employment of support staff?
    −   Are support staff members satisfied with their roles?
    −   How is manpower planning of the support staff carried out?
    −   Are recruitment and promotion criteria for the support staff established?
    −   Is there a performance management system?
    −   What are the career development plans for the support staff?


Sources of Evidence

-   Student selection process and criteria
-   Trend of student intake
-   Credit system
-   Student workload
-   Student performance report
-   Participation in academic and non-academic activities, extracurricular activities,
    competition, etc
-   Mechanisms to report and feedback on student progress
-   Provision of student support services at university- and faculty-level
-   Coaching, mentoring, and counselling schemes
-   Student feedback and course evaluation.




                                       34 | P a g e
2.7      AUN-QA Criterion 7 – Facilities and Infrastructure

Requirements


 7.1. The physical resources to deliver the curriculum, including equipment,
      material, and information technology, are shown to be sufficient.
 7.2. The laboratories and equipment are shown to be up-to-date, readily available,
      and effectively deployed.
 7.3. A digital library is shown to be set-up, in keeping with progress in information
      and communication technology.
 7.4. The information technology systems are shown to be set up to meet the needs
      of staff and students.
 7.5. The university is shown to provide a highly accessible computer and network
      infrastructure that enables the campus community to fully exploit information
      technology for teaching, research, service, and administration.
 7.6. The environmental, health, and safety standards and access for people with
      special needs are shown to be defined and implemented.
 7.7. The university is shown to provide a physical, social, and psychological
      environment that is conducive for education, research, and personal well-
      being.
 7.8. The competences of the support staff rendering services related to facilities
      are shown to be identified and evaluated to ensure that their skills remain
      relevant to stakeholder needs.
 7.9. The quality of the facilities (library, laboratory, IT, and student services) are
      shown to be subjected to evaluation and enhancement.


Explanation

The provision of facilities and infrastructure should be in line with the objectives of the
programme. Facilities are also connected to the teaching and learning approach. For
example, if the approach is to teach in small working groups, then flexible classroom
arrangements should be made available. Learning resources such as computers, e-
learning portals, library resources, etc, should be adequately provided to meet the
needs of students and staff.

Programme quality depends mostly on interaction between staff and students.
However, academic staff cannot perform their roles well without good quality services
provided by the support staff. These are the staff who manage the libraries,
laboratories, computer facilities, and other student services.

Diagnostic Questions

      − Are there sufficient lecture-halls, seminar rooms, laboratories, reading rooms,
        and computer rooms? Do these facilities meet the needs of students and staff?
      − Is the library sufficiently equipped for education and research?
      − Is the library accessible and within easy reach (location, opening hours)?
      − Are there sufficient laboratory facilities?
      − Do the laboratories meet the relevant requirements?


                                       35 | P a g e
    − Are sufficient teaching aids and tools available to staff and students?
    − What hardware and software are made available to meet the needs of
      education and research?
    − To what extent do the facilities and infrastructure promote or obstruct the
      delivery of the programme?
    − Is the total budget for teaching aids and tools sufficient?
    − How are the facilities and infrastructure maintained?


Sources of Evidence

-   List of facilities, equipment, computer hardware and software, etc
-   Facility booking, utilisation rate, downtime/uptime, operating hours
-   Maintenance plan
-   New facilities and upgrading plans
-   Safety, health, and environmental policy
-   Emergency plan
-   Student and staff feedback
-   Budget for facilities and infrastructure.




                                      36 | P a g e
2.8   AUN-QA Criterion 8 – Output and Outcomes

Requirements


 8.1. The pass rate, dropout rate, and average time to graduate are shown to be
      established, monitored, and benchmarked for improvement.
 8.2. Employability as well as self-employment, entrepreneurship, and
      advancement to further studies, are shown to be established, monitored, and
      benchmarked for improvement.
 8.3. Research and creative work output and activities carried out by the academic
      staff and students, are shown to be established, monitored, and benchmarked
      for improvement.
 8.4. Data are provided to show directly the achievement of the programme
      outcomes, which are established and monitored.
 8.5. Satisfaction level of the various stakeholders are shown to be established,
      monitored, and benchmarked for improvement.


Explanation

In assessing the quality assurance of an academic programme, output and outcomes
measures are important. These include measuring the extent to which the expected
learning outcomes have been achieved, pass rate, dropout rate, average time to
graduate, and employment rate. Research is another important output from the
process. The types of research activities carried by staff and students should meet
the requirements of the stakeholders.

In addition to analysing input, process, and output, universities have to analyse also
the level of satisfaction of its stakeholders. There should be a system to collect and
measure stakeholder satisfaction. The information collected should be analysed and
benchmarked for improvement.

Pass Rate and Dropout Rate

Table 2.6. shows information on pass rate and dropout rate of the last five cohorts to
be provided.

 Academic      Cohort     % Completed First                % Dropout During
   Year         Size         Degree in
                          3     4       >4           1st    2nd    3rd     4th Years &
                        Years Years Years           Year   Year   Year       Beyond




              Table 2.6. Pass Rates and Dropout Rate (last five cohorts)



                                     37 | P a g e
Research Activities

Research is an important output from the academic staff. The types of research output
(e.g., publications, consulting work, projects, grants, etc) carried out by the academic
staff should meet the requirements of the stakeholders. Programmes are to provide
data on the types and number of research publications in the last five academic years
as shown in Table 2.7. below.

                             Types of Publication                           No. of
              In-house/      National Regional International              Publications
 Academic
             Institutional                                        Total       per
   Year
                                                                           Academic
                                                                             Staff




               Table 2.7. Types and Number of Research Publication


Diagnostic Questions (Pass Rate, Dropout Rate)

   − Does the programme have an efficient system to monitor the pass rates and
     dropout rates of students?
   − What does the programme think of the pass rates? If not satisfactory, what
     measures are taken to improve the pass rates?
   − What is the dropout rate? Are there explanations for the dropout rate?
   − Does the department know where the dropout students go to?

Diagnostic Questions (Average Time to Graduate)

   − What does the department think of the average time to graduate?
   − What measures have been taken to promote graduation and to shorten the
     average time to graduate?
   − What effects do these measures have?

Diagnostic Questions (Quality of Graduates)

   − Is the quality of the graduates satisfactory?
   − Do the achieved standards match the expected standards?
   − Do the graduates get jobs easily? What are the career prospects of the
     graduates over the last five years?

Diagnostic Questions (Employability of Graduates)

   − What percentage of graduates find a job within six months of graduation over
     the past five years? What percentage of graduates found a job within one year
     of graduation?


                                      38 | P a g e
    − What percentage of graduates are still unemployed one year after graduation?

Diagnostic Questions (Research)

    − What types of research activities are carried out by the students? Are these
      activities aligned to the expected learning outcomes and the vision and mission
      of the university and faculty?
    − What types of research activities are carried out by academic staff? Are these
      activities aligned to the vision and mission of the university and faculty?
    − What is the level of research grants and how is it utilised?
    − What is the number of research papers published? Are the research papers
      published in national, regional, and/or international journals?

Diagnostic Questions (Stakeholder Satisfaction)

    − What mechanisms are available for staff to express their satisfaction or
      dissatisfaction about the programme, resources, facilities, processes, policies,
      etc?
    − What indicators are used to measure and monitor the satisfaction level of staff?
    − What initiatives are carried out to raise the satisfaction level of staff? Are they
      effective?
    − Does the department know what students think about the courses, programme,
      teaching, examinations, etc?
    − How does the department cope with the feedback and complaints from
      students?
    − What is the opinion and feedback of the graduates about the competencies that
      they have acquired?
    − How is feedback from the alumni used to improve the programme?
    − Are employers satisfied with the quality of the graduates?
    − Are there any specific complaints about the graduates?
    − Are specific strengths of the graduates appreciated by the employers?


Sources of Evidence

-   Process and indicators for measuring stakeholder satisfaction
-   Stakeholder satisfaction trend
-   Graduates, alumni, and employer surveys
-   Press reports
-   Employment surveys
-   Employment statistics
-   Employer feedback.




                                       39 | P a g e
3.       Quality Assessment

3.1      Introduction to Quality Assessment

Assessment can be defined as a general term that embraces all methods used to
judge the performance of an individual, group, or organisation. Self-assessment is the
process of critically reviewing the quality of one’s own performance at the institutional,
system, or programme level.

Quality assessment in higher education, therefore, can be defined as a diagnostic
review and evaluation of teaching, learning, and outcomes, based on a detailed
examination of curricula, structures, resources, and effectiveness of the institution,
system, or programme. It aims to determine if an institution, system, or programme
meets generally accepted quality standards.

3.2      Functions and Principles of Quality Assessment

Self-assessment is introduced in higher education together with external assessment,
accreditation or quality audits. In many cases, self-assessment serves as preparation
for a site visit by external experts and the self-assessment report (SAR) provides the
external experts with the basic information about the institution, programme, and
quality assurance system. It also provides an opportunity for the institution and its
staff to discover the quality of its quality assurance system.

An effective self-assessment is time-consuming as it requires effort and time.
However, the gains from a good self-assessment are valuable. It gives information
and facts about the quality assurance system and provides a platform for stakeholders
to discuss issues on the quality of education.

The fundamental principles described in the ISO 19011 standard are relevant to self-
assessment and AUN-QA assessment. Three of the principles that relate to the
conduct of the assessors are:

-     Ethical conduct – the foundation of professionalism
-     Fair presentation – the obligation to report truthfully and accurately
-     Due professional care – the application of diligence and judgment to assessment.

Two other principles that relate to the assessment process are:

-     Independence – the basis for the impartiality and objectivity of the assessment
      conclusions
-     Evidence – the rational basis for reaching reliable and reproducible assessment
      conclusions in a systematic assessment process. Evidences are based on records
      and statements of fact or information which are relevant to the assessment criteria
      and are verifiable.

Adherence to these fundamental principles is a prerequisite for providing a reliable
and relevant assessment process and outcome. The following considerations should
be made before carrying out a self-assessment:



                                        40 | P a g e
•     Management must fully support the self-assessment and provide access to
      relevant information that is needed for an effective quality assurance system. The
      self-assessment serves to acquire structural insight into the operation and
      performance of the institution.
•     Gaining management support to carry out a self- assessment is not enough. The
      whole organisation has to prepare itself for the self-assessment. Assessing quality
      is more than evaluating the performance of a programme; it is also about
      developing and shaping the institution. Staff members should be made responsible
      for the quality and all staff should be involved in the self-assessment.
•     Writing a critical self-evaluation of the quality assurance system demands good
      organisation and coordination. Primarily, someone has to lead and coordinate the
      self-assessment process. The chosen leader should have good contacts within
      the institution including key management staff, faculty, and support staff; have
      access to obtain the required information at all levels; and have the authority to
      make appointments with stakeholders.
•     It is desirable to install a working group in charge of the self-assessment. It is
      important that the group is structured in such a way that the involvement of all
      sections is assured. The working group should be in charge of the self-
      assessment, gathering and analysing data and drawing conclusions.
•     As it is assumed that the self-assessment is supported by the institution, it is
      important that all staff members should be acquainted with the contents of the SAR.
      The working group might organise a workshop or seminar to discuss or
      communicate the SAR.


3.3      Preparation of Self-Assessment Report

Figure 3.1 illustrates the approach for preparing a self-assessment which
encompasses the Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) cycle of improvement.




                      Figure 3.1. PDCA Approach to SAR Development




                                        41 | P a g e
The “Plan” phase starts with the communication of intent for quality assessment.
Appoint a group responsible for writing the SAR. The group should consist of key
people representing various departments and led by someone appointed by the faculty
or university. As part of the change management process, early engagement with the
stakeholders is crucial to get their buy-in and commitment before the start of the
project. A clear timetable should be set up to develop the SAR (see Figure 3.2). Each
member in the group should be made responsible for collecting and analysing data
and information, and writing the SAR. Each member must have a good understanding
of the AUN-QA criteria before proceeding to the next phase.




                Figure 3.2. Typical Project Timeline for SAR Development

The “Do” phase involves identifying the gaps in the quality assurance system in
meeting the AUN-QA criteria. Data collection is a critical step in this phase as it helps
to quantify the existing quality assurance practices as well as to identify what the
institution needs to do to meet the AUN-QA criteria. Solutions to close the gaps should
be implemented before proceeding to write and review the SAR.

The “Check” phase involves verifying the SAR as well as the quality assurance
practices, and giving feedback to improve them. An independent team should be
appointed to assess the SAR and the existing quality assurance practices against the
AUN-QA criteria. Recommendations to improve the SAR and close the gaps in the
existing quality assurance practices should be made.

The “Act” phase involves implementing the recommendations raised in the “Check”
phase. The SAR is finalised before communicating it to relevant stakeholders and
getting ready for the external assessment.



                                       42 | P a g e
3.4      Self-Assessment Report

A typical self-assessment project would take about nine months to a year to prepare.
However, the duration depends on the stage of development, availability of data and
information, and the maturity of the university, faculty or school. At the start of the
project, it is important that the sponsor, project team, and staff members involved have
a common comprehension and understanding of the AUN-QA guidelines and criteria.
Training and communications should be set up to ensure this. The SAR is the product
of the self-assessment exercise and it should be written in an objective, factual, and
complete manner and follow the AUN-QA self-rating form (See Appendix A).

The self-assessment must be finalised with a SAR. Writing an effective SAR requires
skill and time. Some guidelines for writing an effective SAR are:

•     The report is the account of the self-assessment. That is to say, the SAR is not
      just descriptive. It is also analytical. It includes an evaluation of the problems. At
      the same time, it provides an indication of how the problems identified will be dealt
      with. Use the diagnostic questions provided in each of the AUN-QA criteria to do
      this.
•     Since it is a self-assessment, which is of the utmost importance for an external
      assessment team, it is important for the SAR to follow a specific format based on
      the AUN-QA criteria and checklist.
•     Illustrate clearly what, where, when, who, and how the QA mechanisms or
      instruments are implemented and managed to fulfil the criteria. This will help to
      piece all related information together.
•     Focus on information and data (objective evidences) that directly address the
      criteria. The report has to be concise and factual. Provide trends and statistics to
      show achievement and performance. The quantitative data require special
      attention. The manner in which data is presented is important for the right
      interpretation of the data. There is a clear need for standardisation of data such
      as student numbers, appointment of teaching staff, staff-to-student ratio, pass
      rates, etc.
•     Self-assessment forms the starting point for improvement between the review
      committee and the faculty as well as a document for inter-collegial assessment.
      When conducting a self-assessment, it is important to draw up an institution’s own
      standards and criteria, but it is also essential to take account of the criteria
      formulated by outsiders, such as an accrediting body. When analysing an
      institution’s own quality, it is important to look for evidence on how far the criteria
      have been met. If there are no formally formulated standards in the country or
      region, the standards as formulated in this manual may be used and taken as
      benchmarks.
•     The SAR should be written or translated into a language (i.e., English) that is easy
      for external assessors to comprehend. Provide a glossary of abbreviations and
      terminologies used in the report.

The SAR is the final document that will play a role in formulating a quality plan for
years to come. It might also provide input for accreditation or for inter-collegial
assessment.



                                          43 | P a g e
The contents of a SAR consist of:

Part 1: Introduction
• Executive summary of the SAR
• Organisation of the self-assessment – how the self-assessment was carried out
   and who were involved?
• Brief description of the university, faculty and department – outline the history of
   quality assurance, mission, vision, objectives and quality policy of the university
   followed by a brief description of the faculty and department.

Part 2: AUN-QA Criteria
This section contains the write-up on how the university, faculty or department
addresses the requirements of the AUN-QA criteria. Follow the criteria listed in the
self-assessment checklist.

Part 3: Strengths and Weaknesses Analysis
• Summary of strengths - summarise the points that the department considers to be
   its strengths and mark the points that the institution is proud of.
• Summary of Weaknesses - indicate which points the department considers to be
   weak and in need of improvement.
• Completed self-ratings as in Appendix A
• Improvement plan – recommendations to close the gaps identified in the self-
   assessment and the action plan to implement them.

Part 4: Appendices
Glossary and supporting documents and evidences


3.5   Preparation of Quality Assessment

Conducting a quality assessment requires good preparation. It is important that the
university considers its resources and prepares its people before proceeding with the
assessment.      The preparation includes communicating the SAR and other
documentation, host team, interviewees, assessment team, logistics, and other
administrative arrangements.

Before requesting for the quality assessment, it is important that management or the
project initiator communicates the intent to all stakeholders concerned. This is to
ensure that those involved understand the reasons and objectives behind the
assessment and at the same time to get commitment and approval for the assessment
project. Sufficient time should be given for criteria owners to prepare the quality
assessment.

The purpose of the assessment is not about the assessment ratings but rather on the
continuous improvement of the quality assurance system implemented. As the
assessment will be based mostly on objective evidences, it is important that the
university has prepared a well-written SAR and get ready all key documents and
records for assessment. Information about the university and programme should be
prepared and presented to the assessment team. This would allow them to have an


                                     44 | P a g e
overview of the university history, policies, vision, mission, and programme. The SAR
and key documents should be translated to a language that is understood by the
assessment team. An interpreter may be present during the site assessment, if
necessary. The translated copy of the SAR should be sent to the assessment team
in advance – at least two months before the site assessment.

The university should assemble key management representatives, SAR team and
guides or interpreter to host the assessment. The key management representatives
could give the commitment and support for the assessment and giving the
presentation of the university, faculty or programme. The SAR team should be present
for clarification of the SAR and serve as contact person(s) for the exercise.

Guides should be available to bring the assessors to the site as well as making
documents and records available; and serve as a liaison between the assessors and
the staff of the faculty or university. Interpreter may be engaged to translate
documents, interview questions or responses.

Prepare and notify the interviewees in advance about the assessment. It is important
to share with them the intent and purpose of the assessment. Key office holders and
fair representation from staff and students should be invited for the assessment
exercise. External parties such as alumni, employers and other stakeholders should
also be invited for the interview.

For internal assessment, experts from adjacent faculties may be considered. However,
there are some conditions that members have to meet:

•   They should act independently.
•   There should be no conflict of interest. Members should have no advantage
    through their verdict.
•   They must be accepted by the faculty to be assessed.

It is also possible to invite retired staff on the grounds that they are more independent
(and have more time available). However, it is also important to have members still
working in the field and with a knowledge of recent developments.

Depending on the types of quality assessment, an assessment team appointed to
carry out the quality assessment may consist of 2 to 5 members. The members of the
team may include:

•   A chairperson, totally independent and unconnected with the institution to be
    assessed. The chair does not need to be an expert in the field, but should have the
    experience with management of higher education institutions and the development
    of quality assurance in higher education.
•   Two experts on the subject area or discipline being assessed.
•   An expert from the labour market and/or from the professional association.
•   An expert from abroad (but because the visit will be done in the local language,
    this member must be proficient in the language).
•   An expert on education and learning processes.




                                       45 | P a g e
In selecting the assessors, consideration should be given to their competence and
personal attributes in addition to education and work experience. Knowledge and
skills specific to quality management system are those related to:

•   Quality and quality assurance in general
•   AUN-QA guidelines and criteria
•   Other QA education models and frameworks.

As far as assessment team leaders are concerned, they should have the knowledge
and leadership skills necessary to enable the team to conduct the assessment
efficiently and effectively. In addition to the above, the assessor should possess a
number of personal attributes that contribute to the successful performance of
assessment. An assessor should be ethical, open minded, diplomatic, observant,
perceptive, versatile, tenacious, decisive and self-reliant. The necessary knowledge
and skills and the personal attributes to apply them effectively can be acquired by an
appropriate combination of education, work experience, assessor training and
assessment experience. These “building blocks” are quantified by, for example,
specifying the minimum level of education, the necessary number of years’ work
experience and the minimum amount of audit or assessment experience.

The appointed assessors should have the required knowledge and skills on quality,
quality assurance, AUN-QA guidelines and criteria and assessment techniques and
skills. If not, training should be conducted for them.

The training should include:

•   Quality and quality assurance in higher education
•   The AUN-QA criteria and guidelines
•   Organisation of self-assessment project
•   Writing and reviewing of SAR
•   Quality assessment process
•   Stakeholders’ interviews
•   Writing feedback reports.

Staff organising the assessment should take care of the following logistics and other
administrative arrangements:

•   Meeting and interviewing rooms:
    • Opening/closing meeting which normally would require a bigger room in
        consideration of the number of people involved
    • Interview room for the conduct of the assessment with the interviewees
    • Assessors would need room for discussion and report writing
•   Observers who wish to learn about the conduct of the assessment
•   Site tour – arrangement for the assessors to visit places such as library, lab, lecture
    halls, etc as part of the assessment
•   Computer equipment/facilities for presentation on opening and closing meetings
•   Photocopying/printing services
•   Refreshments/meals
•   Transport arrangements/airport transfers


                                        46 | P a g e
•     Accommodation.

3.6      Quality Assessment Process

The Plan-Do-Check-Act (PDCA) or Deming Cycle illustrated in Figure 3.3 is adopted
for quality assessment at the programme level, as well as for both institutional
assessment and IQA assessment.




                   Figure 3.3 – PDCA Approach to AUN-QA Assessment


3.6.1 Plan Phase

The “Plan” phase consists of:

•     Types of Assessment
•     Assessment Team
•     Schedule & Itinerary.

At the start of the planning, the institution has to decide which quality assessment that
they want to conduct as each serves a different purpose and requires a different level
of expertise. The three types of quality assessment in AUN-QA are institutional, IQA
system, and programme level.



                                       47 | P a g e
The assessment team(s) will be appointed by the AUN Secretariat in advance based
on assessor’s background, experience and language ability. Each team should
comprise at least 2 members from different universities. The assessors in each team
should decide on their roles and assignment before, during and after the assessment.

The chairperson or the lead assessor will provide leadership to the assessment team,
setup preliminary meetings/discussions, assigning of roles and assessment
areas/criteria and moderating the final assessment results. In general, an assessor
should perform the following roles:

•   Preparing assessment plan and checklist
•   Communicating and clarifying assessment requirements
•   Planning & carrying out assigned responsibilities effectively and efficiently
•   Making observations on curricula, processes, facilities and quality improvements
•   Reporting the assessment results
•   Retaining and safeguarding documents pertaining to the assessment.

Before the site assessment, assessors need to check the date, time, location and
venue of the assessment to be carried out for each programme. For venue, it is
normally held at the university which facilitates the access to documents, site tour,
faculty members and supporting staff. Interviews are best held in conference-like
arrangement and avoid using a room that is too large or in a lecture-style. When
interviewing staff, it is preferably that the room also holds the relevant documents to
facilitate easy verification.

Assessors should also obtain the details of the contact person(s) of the university and
AUN Secretariat so that prior communication can be established, if necessary. Know
who is in the assessment team and agree on the roles. Make sure that the SAR is
submitted at least 1.5 to 2 months before the site assessment to allow for the
preparation of desktop assessment.

A typical Itinerary will spread over 3 days and it will normally consist of:

•   Opening meeting
    • Presentation on the overview of the unit to be assessed
•   Interviews (Dean, Department Head, Programme Chair, faculty members,
    supporting staff, students, alumni and employers)
•   Site tour (teaching facilities, laboratories, workshops, libraries, general facilities)
•   Assessment and report preparation
•   Breaks, lunches and dinners
•   Closing meeting
    • Presentation of preliminary assessment findings




                                        48 | P a g e
A typical itinerary is shown in Table 3.1.

   Date/ Time                                         Activities
                                        Day 0
           Arrival and Pick-up of Assessors and Staff from AUN Secretariat
                                        Day 1
 09.00 – 09.30      Opening Session
 09.30 - 09.45      Coffee Break
 09.45 – 10.00      Briefing by Dean
                    Meeting Key Faculty Members: Head of Department, Programme
 10.00 – 11.30
                    Chair and SAR Team
                    Site Visit to Campus and Faculty - Laboratories, Lecture Facilities,
 11.30 – 13.00
                    Libraries, Computer Facilities, etc.
 13.00 – 14.00      Lunch
 14.00 – 15.30      Meeting with Faculty Members
 15.30 – 15.45      Coffee Break
 15.45 – 17.00      Meeting with Support Staff
 17.00 onwards      Dinner
                                        Day 2
 08.30 – 10.00      Meeting with Students
 10.00 – 10.15      Coffee Break
 10.15 – 11.30      Meeting with Alumni
 11.30 – 13.00      Meeting with Employers
 13.00 – 14.00      Lunch
 14.00 – 17.00      Clarification and/or Preparation of Assessment Findings
 17.00 onwards      Dinner (Free & Easy)
                                         Day 3
 09.00 - 11.00      Presentation of Preliminary Assessment Findings
 11.00 – 11.30      Closing Session
 11.30 – 13.00      Lunch and Departure of Assessors

                    Table 3.1. Typical AUN-QA Assessment Itinerary




                                       49 | P a g e
3.6.2 Do Phase

The “Do” phase involves desktop and site assessment.

Desktop Assessment

Desktop assessment is the first initial step before the site assessment. It is a document
review exercise which involves a preliminary assessment of the quality assurance
system based on the SAR and available documents. The desktop assessment
facilitates the development of an assessment plan. The AUN-QA Assessment
Planning Template (see Appendix B) is used for this purpose. The desktop
assessment allows the following preparatory work to be done:

•   Clarifying SAR and quality assurance practices
•   Identifying strengths and weaknesses of the quality assurance practices
•   Identifying gaps in meeting the AUN-QA criteria
•   Identifying possible areas for improvement
•   Crafting questions for stakeholders’ interviews
•   Identifying sources of evidence for verification.

The purpose of assessment planning is to gather evidence of practices that meet AUN-
QA guidelines and criteria. The plan should include:

•   Sources of information and evidence
•   Strategy employed to gather the evidence as well as identifying documents and
    records for review. Strategy may include interview, site visit, document review,
    website access, etc
•   Identify individuals to be interviewed and plan schedule of interviews and site tour
•   Prepare questions needed to gather the evidence.

The SAR is the most critical document for desktop assessment and it should be given
to the assessors in advance before the actual assessment. It should give an overview
of the university, faculty, department and programme being assessed. The SAR
should cover all the criteria listed in the checklist. If any of the criteria are not
documented, the assessors should clarify with the contact person of the university.
Assessors should identify information and documents mentioned in the report and
verify them against the physical documents during the site assessment.




                                       50 | P a g e
The PDCA approach is a good tool to apply in assessment planning. Questions can
be formulated at each stage of the PDCA (see Figure 3.4).




               Figure 3.4. PDCA Approach in Formulating Questions

For example, at the “Plan” stage, questions on what, when and why can be used to
establish objectives and processes that deliver results based on AUN-QA guidelines
and criteria and organisation policies. At the “Do” stage, questions can revolve around
implementation and who are involved. At the “Check” stage, questions on monitoring
and measuring performance and processes can be formulated. Lastly, at the “Act”
stage, assessors can plan questions on actions to continually improve performance.
Adopt the 5Ws (why, what, where, who and when) and 1H (How) questioning
technique during the interview.

To facilitate the desktop assessment and planning, a template for desktop assessment
at programme level is documented in Appendix B. A sample on how the template is
being used for desktop planning is documented in Appendix C.




                                      51 | P a g e
Site Assessment

Site assessment or site visit consists of an opening meeting with key management
representatives of the university. The opening meeting is normally followed by a
presentation of the university and programme. After which, interviews would be held
with the various stakeholders. Site tour may be arranged before or between the
interviews. The assessment will conclude with a closing meeting.

An opening meeting with the host university management representatives should be
held at the start of the site assessment. The purpose of the brief opening meeting is
to:

•   Introduce the members of the assessment team to the host university’s
    management representatives.
•   Establish official communication links between the assessment team and the host
    university.
•   Review scope and objectives of the assessment.
•   Clarify details of the assessment plan and schedule.
•   Allow the host university to introduce the university and its programme normally
    done through a presentation.

Typical opening statements by the chairperson of the assessment team are as follows:


“Good morning ladies and gentlemen. My name is XXX and my colleague is YYY. We
are the assessment team from ASEAN University Network (AUN).

At the request of your university, we are glad to make a quality assessment at the
programme level under the AUN-QA guidelines and criteria. The scope of the
assessment will cover the XXX programme at the faculty of ABC. We will be looking
at the activities that are relevant to these areas. We will be following a schedule as
agreed earlier and do let us know if there are any changes. The assessment will take
about 3 days.

A closing ceremony will be held on the final day of the assessment where we will be
presenting the preliminary assessment findings.

Before we proceed, is there anything that you would like to ask? (Pause for a second).

Thank you and you may now introduce the members in your team.”



Interviews

Interviews with various stakeholders are normally pre-arranged by the host university
prior to the site assessment. The interviews may start with a discussion involving the
writers of the SAR at the start and during the site assessment. In this interview, the
team can ask for clarification of any obscurities and explanation of any topics that are
not clear.


                                      52 | P a g e
The interviews with the students provide a very rich source of information, but the
information needs to be checked and tested against the ideas of the staff members.
Student interviews are important to get an insight into the study load, quality of the
academic staff, the curriculum of the programme, the quality of the facilities, etc.

The student interview should be held in the absence of staff members, so that they
can speak freely. The size of the student groups is ideally about 5 students in each
cohort. It's best to talk to about 5 students from the first year, 5 from say the second
and third years, and 5 who are nearly at the end of their studies. It is important that the
students are a fair representation of the population. The selection of students should
follow the requirements stated in the “Guidelines for AUN-QA Assessment and
Assessors”. The assessors should have a list of the students and their details such as
name, year of study, etc.

Interviews with staff members will be used for discussion on the content of the
programme, learning outcomes, teaching and learning methods, student assessment,
etc. It is advisable to interview with group of not more than 25 staff members. Other
interviews may be held with members of a curriculum committee and with members of
the committee responsible for examinations. During the interview with the curriculum
committee, the question of how the curriculum is kept up to date will be discussed as
will the question of how innovations are planned and realised. The interview with the
examination committee must clearly show how the quality of the examinations and
degree is assured.

Interviews with employers and alumni provide a good indication of the quality of
graduates and curriculum. They can provide a good source for the university to
improve its processes, systems, facilities, curriculum, etc.

In each interview, the assessor will usually go through several steps including
informing the interviewees about the purpose of the interview, gather background
information about the interviewees and conducting the actual interview.

Objectives of Interview are to:

•   Gather information and evidences
•   Clarify and verify SAR and practices
•   Give interviewees opportunity to present the full picture.

It is important for the assessors to talk less and listen more as the purpose of the
interview is to ensure a fair and objective view of the assessment. In preparing the
interview, the assessor should consider the following:

•   Know the interviewees
       − Language
       − Education
       − Specialisation or area of interests
•   Plan the questions
       − Focus on the criteria



                                       53 | P a g e
       − Phrase questions as neutrally as possible to avoid bias
       − Use open-ended questioning technique (5Ws and 1H) to probe for
         information
       − Use close-ended questions to confirm information
       − Manage time to cover different criteria and interviewees.


An interviewing process consists of 3 phases as follows:

•   Introduction
•   Questioning
•   Conclusion.

At the introduction phase, the following items should be carried out:

•   Introduce the assessment team
•   Explain purpose of the interview
•   Put interviewees at ease
•   Get to know the background of interviewees (e.g. years of service or study, current
    position, scope of work, etc.), if necessary.

During questioning, do take note of the following factors:

•   Use reassuring tones and approach in a respectful manner
•   Assure interviewees that the session is strictly confidential and no information will
    be attributed to any one individual
•   Lead the discussion
•   Take note
•   Keep to the agenda
•   Watch your time.

Use effective questioning techniques:

•   Ask one question at a time. Give interviewees ample time to respond before
    moving to the next question.
•   Use open-ended questions to probe for information.
•   Use close-ended questions to confirm information.
•   Avoid leading questions.
•   Try to use neutral language. Avoid words like never, bad, good, always, weak, etc.

Before concluding the interview, do the following:

•   Ask if interviewees have anything else to add. This gives them some control over
    the interview and a chance to tell you something important that might not be on the
    list.
•   Thank the interviewees for their time

Four basic techniques in active listening are:



                                       54 | P a g e
    1. Mirroring. Restating what the interviewee says using different words. Restate
       in such a way as to encourage the interviewee to go on.
    2. Using silences. Silence may make people feel uncomfortable in a conversation.
       However, not every gap in a conversation needs to be filled. Distinguish
       between positive and negative silences where the interviewee is thinking.
       During a negative silence where the interviewee is not able to respond, provide
       help.
    3. Acknowledging. Remind the interviewee periodically that you are listening with
       words like “Yes”, “I see”, “Um..m”. Use body language like nodding and eye
       contact without interrupting the interviewee unnecessarily.
    4. Open-ended questioning. Use questions that encourage the interviewees to
       think further rather than give a straight “Yes” or “No” answer. Close ended
       questions often cut the natural flow of the interviewee’s thoughts, make them
       feel interrogated and put them on the defensive.


Objective Evidence

Evidence should be collected on all matters related to the assessment objectives and
scope. Checklist can be used to aid the collection of evidence. Evidence should be
collected through:

•   Interviews
•   Examination of documents/records (physical and electronic)
•   Observation of activities and facilities
•   Site tour
•   Use of statistical methods such as sampling can be used to increase efficiency
    during assessment. However, the sample should be a fair representation of the
    area under examination.

Site tour can be planned before or between interviews. The site tour normally includes
visit to lecture halls, tutorial rooms, laboratories, workshops or practical rooms,
libraries and computer labs. Special attention should be paid to the environment in the
facilities, condition of the equipment and tools, cleanliness and maintenance of the
facilities. Site tour also provides the assessors an opportunity to clarify the findings or
SAR with the support staff.


3.6.3 Check Phase

The “Check” phase involves report preparation and presentation of the assessment
findings.

At the end of the assessment, prior to preparing the final report, the assessment team
may hold a clarification meeting with the host university’s management
representatives and those responsible for the programme.

The purpose of the meeting is to:

•   Present the preliminary results of the assessment


                                        55 | P a g e
•   Ensure that the results of the assessment are clearly understood
•   Provide an opportunity for clarification
•   Conclude the assessment.

The meeting is part of the “Check” phase and it helps the assessors to prepare an
objective and factual report. It gives the assessors and assessees an opportunity to
clarify doubts and to seek a better understanding of the QA processes and how the
AUN-QA criteria are being fulfilled. It helps to identify and agree on the areas for
improvement and provides the motivational force for the university to improve its QA
system. The 2-way communication in the “Check” phase would make the university
more receptive to the findings and help to build a closer and enduring relationship
between the assessors and the university.


Assessment Report

The objectives of assessment report are:

•   Level of performance based on AUN-QA guidelines and criteria
•   Key strengths of university/faculty/programme
•   Areas for improvement.

The steps to prepare assessment report are illustrated in Figure 3.5.




                 Figure 3.5. Steps in Preparing Assessment Report


To prepare a creditable and objective report, the assessment team has to verify the
evidences gathered and agree on the strengths and weaknesses of the QA practices



                                     56 | P a g e
adopted by the university. Next is to establish the gaps against the AUN-QA criteria
and suggest areas for improvement. Based on the findings, the assessment team has
to establish and agree on the level of performance or rating. Any differences should
be resolved through factual and objective evidences against the best known practices.
Reconciliation of ratings of common criteria across programmes should be carried out
to ensure consistency of results.

A seven-point rating scale is used for AUN-QA assessment. It provides universities
and assessors an instrument for scaling their verdicts and to see how far they have
progressed in their AUN-QA journey. The seven-point rating scale is described below.

 Rating                                   Description
           Absolutely Inadequate
   1       The QA practice to fulfil the criterion is not implemented. There are no
           plans, documents, evidences or results available. Immediate
           improvement must be made.
           Inadequate and Improvement is Necessary
   2       The QA practice to fulfil the criterion is still at its planning stage or is
           inadequate where improvement is necessary. There is little document or
           evidence available. Performance of the QA practice shows little or poor
           results.
           Inadequate but Minor Improvement Will Make It Adequate
   3       The QA practice to fulfil the criterion is defined and implemented but
           minor improvement is needed to fully meet them. Documents are
           available but no clear evidence to support that they have been fully
           used. Performance of the QA practice shows inconsistent or some
           results.
           Adequate as Expected
   4       The QA practice to fulfil the criterion is adequate and evidences support
           that it has been fully implemented. Performance of the QA practice
           shows consistent results as expected.
           Better Than Adequate
   5       The QA practice to fulfil the criterion is better than adequate. Evidences
           support that it has been efficiently implemented. Performance of the QA
           practice shows good results and positive improvement trend.
           Example of Best Practices
   6       The QA practice to fulfil the criterion is considered to be example of best
           practices in the field. Evidences support that it has been effectively
           implemented. Performance of QA practice shows very good results and
           positive improvement trend.
           Excellent (Example of World-class or Leading Practices)
   7       The QA practice to fulfil the criterion is considered to be excellent or
           example of world-class practices in the field. Evidences support that it
           has been innovatively implemented. Performance of the QA practice
           shows excellent results and outstanding improvement trends.



                                      57 | P a g e
In assigning a rating to each criterion, only whole numbers are used (e.g., 3.0, 4.0,
5.0, 6.0). The overall verdict for a study programme assessment will be based on a
holistic assessment rather than the arithmetic average. The descriptive term of the
seven-point scale for the overall verdict will be stated. The arithmetic average is not
used. The scoring for each criterion is provided at the summary page of the report.

Before making the presentation to the university management, the assessment team
should clarify any doubts and agree on the areas for improvement with the key staff of
the faculty or department. The report should not be judgmental such as using the
word “frequently”. Instead state the comment factually and indicate the importance of
having the practice or process. The final report should be prepared using the AUN-
QA Assessment Report Template in Appendix D.

In writing feedback report, do adhere to the following guidelines:

•   Feedback must be:
    • Objective
    • Based on evidence
    • Encouraging
    • Part of a “learning” process
•   Feedback must not
    • Ridicule
    • Mandate solution
    • Be insensitive to the overall effort
    • Ignore the achievement made.

Good feedback is fundamental to an effective assessment. It would help the university
to determine its readiness in meeting AUN-QA guidelines and criteria. It also provides
the basis for feedback on areas that the university needs to improve. Good feedback
should:

•   Use clear, simple, grammatically correct and complete sentences. They help to
    reduce the time needed to clarify points.
•   Avoid jargons or acronyms.
•   Be constructive – use positive tone, be specific to guide improvement and
    comment only on areas contained in the criteria.
•   Be non-prescriptive – state observations and evaluation.

A closing meeting is usually done by the chairperson of the assessment team. Typical
closing meeting statements include:


“Good morning ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the assessment team, I would like
to thank you and your staff for the hospitality and assistance which you have given us
throughout the assessment. We have enjoyed the friendly atmosphere during the
assessment.




                                       58 | P a g e
First, I would like to reiterate the purpose and scope of this assessment under the
AUN-QA guidelines and criteria at programme level. The assessment has been carried
out on the basis of a prepared plan which involved examining a representative sample
of the activities relevant to the AUN-QA framework. With your kind consent, I will
present the preliminary results and findings from the team.

A final report will be sent to your university by the AUN secretariat at a later date.”



3.6.4 Act Phase

The “Act” phase involves preparing the final report and the assessment feedback. The
final report consists of a summary and the detailed assessment results (see Appendix
D). A sample of the report is documented in Appendix E. A typical summary in the
report is reproduced below.


This report is based on information provided in the self-assessment report (SAR),
evidences, site tours, and interviews with selected stakeholders including academic
and support staff, students, alumni, and employers. It should be read together with
the preliminary findings presented at the closing ceremony where the key strengths
and areas for improvement were highlighted.

The AUN-QA assessment at programme level covers eight criteria. Each criterion is
assessed based on a seven-point scale. The summary of the assessment results is
as follows:

                             Criterion                            Score
            1. Expected Learning Outcomes                           4
            2. Programme Structure and Content                      5
            3. Teaching and Learning Approach                       4
            4. Student Assessment                                   5
            5. Academic Staff                                       5
            6. Student Support Services                             5
            7. Facilities and Infrastructure                        4
            8. Output and Outcomes                                  5
            Overall Verdict                                Adequate as Expected

Based on the assessment results, the Bachelor of XXX Programme fulfills the AUN-
QA requirements. Overall the quality assurance implemented for the programme is
Adequate as Expected.


The overall verdict for study programme assessment will be based on a holistic
assessment rather than an arithmetic average. The descriptive term of the seven-
point scale for the overall verdict will be stated. The arithmetic average is not used.
Thus, the overall verdict would be one of the below:

•   Absolutely Inadequate, or


                                       59 | P a g e
•   Inadequate and Improvement is Necessary, or
•   Inadequate but Minor Improvement Will Make It Adequate, or
•   Adequate as Expected, or
•   Better Than Adequate, or
•   Example of Best Practices, or
•   Excellent (Example of World-class or Leading Practices).

The scoring for each sub-criterion will no longer be reported in the final report
submission (Appendix D). The scoring for each criterion will be provided at the
summary page of the report.

After the assessment team has completed its report, it sends the report to the AUN
Secretariat. This is forwarded to the university programme assessed. The university
programme in turn provides its feedback to the AUN of the performance of the
assessors. This is done using Appendix F. The purpose of Appendix F is to help the
AUN Secretariat to improve the assessment process.




                                    60 | P a g e
4.    References

Article 11. Qualitative Evaluation. (UNESCO, 1998). World Declaration on Higher
Education for the Twenty-first Century: Vision and Action. Published in the World
Conference on Higher Education, Paris, 1998. UNESCO. Director-General, 1987-
1999 (Mayor F.).

Biggs, J. (2003). Aligning Teaching and Assessment to Curriculum Objectives.
Imaginative Curriculum Project, LTSN Generic Centre.

Regional Report of Asia and the Pacific (UNESCO, 2003). Higher Education in Asia
and the Pacific, 1998-2003. Published in the Meeting of Higher Education Partners,
Paris, 2003. UNESCO Office Bangkok and Regional Bureau for Education in Asia
and the Pacific.

Lam, B. and Tsui, K. (2013). Examining the Alignment of Subject Learning
Outcomes and Course Curricula through Curriculum Mapping. Australian Journal of
Teacher Education, 38(12).

Gyll, S. and Ragland, S. (2018). Improving the Validity of Objective Assessment in
Higher Education: Steps for Building a Best-in-class Competency-based Assessment
Program. The Journal of Competency-Based Education. Retrieved from
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/cbe2.1058




                                    61 | P a g e
5.    Appendices

Appendix A – Self-rating for AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level
Appendix B – Template for AUN-QA Assessment Planning at Programme Level
Appendix C – Sample of AUN-QA Assessment Planning at Programme Level
Appendix D – Template for AUN-QA Assessment Report at Programme Level
Appendix E – Sample of AUN-QA Assessment Report at Programme Level
Appendix F – Feedback Report for AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level




                                 62 | P a g e
                                                                          Appendix A

Self-rating for AUN-QA Assessment at Programme Level

      Criterion                                           1   2   3   4    5   6   7

1     Expected Learning Outcomes
1.1   The programme to show that the expected
      learning outcomes are appropriately formulated
      in accordance with an established learning
      taxonomy, are aligned to the vision and mission
      of the university, and are known to all
      stakeholders.
1.2   The programme to show that the expected
      learning outcomes for all courses are
      appropriately formulated and are aligned to the
      expected learning outcomes of the programme.
1.3   The programme to show that the expected
      learning outcomes consist of both generic
      outcomes (related to written and oral
      communication, problem-solving, information
      technology, teambuilding skills, etc) and subject
      specific outcomes (related to knowledge and
      skills of the study discipline).
1.4   The programme to show that the requirements of
      the stakeholders, especially the external
      stakeholders, are gathered, and that these are
      reflected in the expected learning outcomes.
1.5   The programme to show that the expected
      learning outcomes are achieved by the students
      by the time they graduate.
                                        Overall opinion
2     Programme Structure and Content
2.1   The specifications of the programme and all its
      courses are shown to be comprehensive, up-to-
      date, and made available and communicated to
      all stakeholders.
2.2   The design of the curriculum is shown to be
      constructively aligned with achieving the
      expected learning outcomes.
2.3   The design of the curriculum is shown to include
      feedback from stakeholders, especially external
      stakeholders.
2.4   The contribution made by each course in
      achieving the expected learning outcomes is
      shown to be clear.
2.5   The curriculum to show that all its courses are
      logically structured, properly sequenced



                                   63 | P a g e
      (progression from basic to intermediate to
      specialised courses), and are integrated.
2.6   The curriculum to have option(s) for students to
      pursue major and/or minor specialisations.
2.7   The programme to show that its curriculum is
      reviewed periodically following an established
      procedure and that it remains up-to-date and
      relevant to industry.
                                          Overall opinion
3     Teaching and Learning Approach
3.1   The educational philosophy is shown to be
      articulated and communicated to all stakeholders.
      It is also shown to be reflected in the teaching and
      learning activities.
3.2   The teaching and learning activities are shown to
      allow students to participate responsibly in the
      learning process.
3.3   The teaching and learning activities are shown to
      involve active learning by the students.
3.4   The teaching and learning activities are shown to
      promote learning, learning how to learn, and
      instilling in students a commitment for life-long
      learning (e.g., commitment to critical inquiry,
      information-processing skills, and a willingness to
      experiment with new ideas and practices).
3.5   The teaching and learning activities are shown to
      inculcate in students, new ideas, creative thought,
      innovation, and an entrepreneurial mindset.
3.6   The teaching and learning processes are shown
      to be continuously improved to ensure their
      relevance to the needs of industry and are aligned
      to the expected learning outcomes.
                                          Overall opinion
4     Student Assessment
4.1   A variety of assessment methods are shown to be
      used and are shown to be constructively aligned
      to achieving the expected learning outcomes and
      the teaching and learning objectives.
4.2   The assessment and assessment-appeal policies
      are shown to be explicit, communicated to
      students, and applied consistently.
4.3   The assessment standards and procedures for
      student progression and degree completion, are
      shown to be explicit, communicated to students,
      and applied consistently.
4.4   The assessments methods are shown to include
      rubrics, marking schemes, timelines, and




                                     64 | P a g e
      regulations, and these are shown to ensure
      validity, reliability, and fairness in assessment.
4.5   The assessment methods are shown to measure
      the achievement of the expected learning
      outcomes of the programme and its courses.
4.6   Feedback of student assessment is shown to be
      provided in a timely manner.
4.7   The student assessment and its processes are
      shown to be continuously reviewed and improved
      to ensure their relevance to the needs of industry
      and alignment to the expected learning outcomes.
                                          Overall opinion
5     Academic Staff
5.1   The programme to show that academic staff
      planning (including succession, promotion, re-
      deployment, termination, and retirement plans) is
      carried out to ensure that the quality and quantity
      of the academic staff fulfil the needs for education,
      research, and service.
5.2   The programme to show that staff workload is
      measured and monitored to improve the quality of
      education, research, and service.
5.3   The programme to show that the competences of
      the academic staff are determined, evaluated, and
      communicated.
5.4   The programme to show that the duties allocated
      to the academic staff are appropriate to
      qualifications, experience, and aptitude.
5.5   The programme to show that promotion of the
      academic staff is based on a merit system which
      accounts for teaching, research, and service.
5.6   The programme to show that the rights and
      privileges, benefits, roles and relationships, and
      accountability of the academic staff, taking into
      account professional ethics and their academic
      freedom, are well defined and understood.
5.7   The programme to show that the training and
      developmental needs of the academic staff are
      systematically identified, and that appropriate
      training and development activities are
      implemented to fulfil the identified needs.
5.8   The programme to show that performance
      management including reward and recognition is
      implemented to assess academic staff teaching
      and research quality.
                                          Overall opinion




                                     65 | P a g e
6     Student Support Services
6.1   The student intake policy, admission criteria, and
      admission procedures to the programme are
      shown to be clearly defined, communicated,
      published, and up-to-date.
6.2   Both short-term and long-term planning of
      academic and non-academic support services are
      shown to be carried out to ensure sufficiency and
      quality of support services for teaching, research,
      and community service.
6.3   An adequate system is shown to exist for student
      progress, academic performance, and workload
      monitoring.    Student      progress,     academic
      performance, and workload are shown to be
      systematically     recorded      and    monitored.
      Feedback to students and corrective actions are
      made where necessary.
6.4   Co-curricular activities, student competition, and
      other student support services are shown to be
      available to improve learning experience and
      employability.
6.5   The competences of the support staff rendering
      student services are shown to be identified for
      recruitment and deployment. These competences
      are shown to be evaluated to ensure their
      continued relevance to stakeholders needs.
      Roles and relationships are shown to be well-
      defined to ensure smooth delivery of the services.
6.6   Student support services are shown to be
      subjected to evaluation, benchmarking, and
      enhancement.
                                           Overall opinion
7     Facilities and Infrastructure
7.1   The physical resources to deliver the curriculum,
      including equipment, material, and information
      technology, are shown to be sufficient.
7.2   The laboratories and equipment are shown to be
      up-to-date, readily available, and effectively
      deployed.
7.3   A digital library is shown to be set-up, in keeping
      with progress in information and communication
      technology.
7.4   The information technology systems are shown to
      be set up to meet the needs of staff and students.
7.5   The university is shown to provide a highly
      accessible computer and network infrastructure
      that enables the campus community to fully



                                      66 | P a g e
      exploit information technology for teaching,
      research, service, and administration.
7.6   The environmental, health, and safety standards
      and access for people with special needs are
      shown to be defined and implemented.
7.7   The university is shown to provide a physical,
      social, and psychological environment that is
      conducive for education, research, and personal
      well-being.
7.8   The competences of the support staff rendering
      services related to facilities are shown to be
      identified and evaluated to ensure that their skills
      remain relevant to stakeholder needs.
7.9   The quality of the facilities (library, laboratory, IT,
      and student services) are shown to be subjected
      to evaluation and enhancement.
                                            Overall opinion
8     Output and Outcomes
8.1   The pass rate, dropout rate, and average time to
      graduate are shown to be established, monitored,
      and benchmarked for improvement.
8.2   Employability as well as self-employment,
      entrepreneurship, and advancement to further
      studies, are shown to be established, monitored,
      and benchmarked for improvement.
8.3   Research and creative work output and activities
      carried out by the academic staff and students,
      are shown to be established, monitored, and
      benchmarked for improvement.
8.4   Data are provided to show directly the
      achievement of the programme outcomes, which
      are established and monitored.
8.5   Satisfaction level of the various stakeholders are
      shown to be established, monitored, and
      benchmarked for improvement.
                                            Overall opinion




                                       67 | P a g e
                                                                                            Appendix B




                                  AUN-QA ASSESSMENT PLANNING AT PROGRAMME LEVEL


AUN-QA Assessment No.:                                                Date of Assessment:


Name of Programme Assessed:


Name of University:


Name of Faculty/School:


Name and Designation of Management Representative:                    e-mail:


Name of Assessors:
                  Criterion                       Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement

1. Expected Learning Outcomes
1.1. The programme to show that the expected
learning outcomes are appropriately
formulated in accordance with an established
learning taxonomy, are aligned to the vision
and mission of the university, and are known to
all stakeholders.

1.2. The programme to show that the expected
learning outcomes for all courses are
appropriately formulated and are aligned to the
expected learning outcomes of the
programme.


1.3. The programme to show that the expected
learning outcomes consist of both generic
outcomes (related to written and oral
communication, problem-solving, information
technology, teambuilding skills, etc) and
subject specific outcomes (related to
knowledge and skills of the study discipline).

1.4. The programme to show that the
requirements of the stakeholders, especially
the external stakeholders, are gathered, and
that these are reflected in the expected
learning outcomes.


1.5. The programme to show that the expected
learning outcomes are achieved by the
students by the time they graduate.
                   Criterion                       Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement

2. Programme Structure and Content
2.1. The specifications of the programme and
all its courses are shown to be comprehensive,
up-to-date, and made available and
communicated to all stakeholders.



2.2. The design of the curriculum is shown to
be constructively aligned with achieving the
expected learning outcomes.




2.3. The design of the curriculum is shown to
include feedback from stakeholders, especially
external stakeholders.




2.4. The contribution made by each course in
achieving the expected learning outcomes is
shown to be clear.




2.5. The curriculum to show that all its courses
are logically structured, properly sequenced
(progression from basic to intermediate to
specialised courses), and are integrated.
                   Criterion                        Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
2.6. The curriculum to have option(s) for
students to pursue major and/or minor
specialisations.




2.7. The programme to show that its
curriculum is reviewed periodically following an
established procedure and that it remains up-
to-date and relevant to industry.



3. Teaching and Learning Approach
3.1. The educational philosophy is shown to be
articulated and communicated to all
stakeholders. It is also shown to be reflected in
the teaching and learning activities.



3.2. The teaching and learning activities are
shown to allow students to participate
responsibly in the learning process.




3.3. The teaching and learning activities are
shown to involve active learning by the
students.
                   Criterion                       Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
3.4. The teaching and learning activities are
shown to promote learning, learning how to
learn, and instilling in students a commitment
for life-long learning (e.g., commitment to
critical inquiry, information-processing skills,
and a willingness to experiment with new ideas
and practices).

3.5. The teaching and learning activities are
shown to inculcate in students, new ideas,
creative thought, innovation, and an
entrepreneurial mindset.



3.6. The teaching and learning processes are
shown to be continuously improved to ensure
their relevance to the needs of industry and
are aligned to the expected learning outcomes.



4. Student Assessment
4.1. A variety of assessment methods are
shown to be used and are shown to be
constructively aligned to achieving the
expected learning outcomes and the teaching
and learning objectives.


4.2. The assessment and assessment-appeal
policies are shown to be explicit,
communicated to students, and applied
consistently.
                  Criterion                     Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
4.3. The assessment standards and
procedures for student progression and degree
completion, are shown to be explicit,
communicated to students, and applied
consistently.


4.4. The assessments methods are shown to
include rubrics, marking schemes, timelines,
and regulations, and these are shown to
ensure validity, reliability, and fairness in
assessment.


4.5. The assessment methods are shown to
measure the achievement of the expected
learning outcomes of the programme and its
courses.



4.6. Feedback of student assessment is shown
to be provided in a timely manner.




4.7. The student assessment and its
processes are shown to be continuously
reviewed and improved to ensure their
relevance to the needs of industry and
alignment to the expected learning outcomes.
                    Criterion                     Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement

5. Academic Staff
5.1. The programme to show that academic
staff planning (including succession,
promotion, re-deployment, termination, and
retirement plans) is carried out to ensure that
the quality and quantity of the academic staff
fulfil the needs for education, research, and
service.
5.2. The programme to show that staff
workload is measured and monitored to
improve the quality of education, research, and
service.



5.3. The programme to show that the
competences of the academic staff are
determined, evaluated, and communicated.




5.4. The programme to show that the duties
allocated to the academic staff are appropriate
to qualifications, experience, and aptitude.




5.5. The programme to show that promotion of
the academic staff is based on a merit system
which accounts for teaching, research, and
service.
                   Criterion                      Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
5.6. The programme to show that the rights
and privileges, benefits, roles and
relationships, and accountability of the
academic staff, taking into account
professional ethics and their academic
freedom, are well defined and understood.

5.7. The programme to show that the training
and developmental needs of the academic
staff are systematically identified, and that
appropriate training and development activities
are implemented to fulfil the identified needs.


5.8. The programme to show that performance
management including reward and recognition
is implemented to assess academic staff
teaching and research quality.



6. Student Support Services
6.1. The student intake policy, admission
criteria, and admission procedures to the
programme are shown to be clearly defined,
communicated, published, and up-to-date.



6.2. Both short-term and long-term planning of
academic and non-academic support services
are shown to be carried out to ensure
sufficiency and quality of support services for
teaching, research, and community service.
                  Criterion                      Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
6.3. An adequate system is shown to exist for
student progress, academic performance, and
workload monitoring. Student progress,
academic performance, and workload are
shown to be systematically recorded and
monitored. Feedback to students and
corrective actions are made where necessary.

6.4. Co-curricular activities, student
competition, and other student support
services are shown to be available to improve
learning experience and employability.



6.5. The competences of the support staff
rendering student services are shown to be
identified for recruitment and deployment.
These competences are shown to be
evaluated to ensure their continued relevance
to stakeholders needs. Roles and relationships
are shown to be well-defined to ensure smooth
delivery of the services.
6.6. Student support services are shown to be
subjected to evaluation, benchmarking, and
enhancement.




7. Facilities and Infrastructure
7.1. The physical resources to deliver the
curriculum, including equipment, material, and
information technology, are shown to be
sufficient.
                    Criterion                      Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
7.2. The laboratories and equipment are
shown to be up-to-date, readily available, and
effectively deployed.




7.3. A digital library is shown to be set-up, in
keeping with progress in information and
communication technology.




7.4. The information technology systems are
shown to be set up to meet the needs of staff
and students.




7.5. The university is shown to provide a highly
accessible computer and network
infrastructure that enables the campus
community to fully exploit information
technology for teaching, research, service, and
administration.
7.6. The environmental, health, and safety
standards and access for people with special
needs are shown to be defined and
implemented.
                   Criterion                       Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
7.7. The university is shown to provide a
physical, social, and psychological
environment that is conducive for education,
research, and personal well-being.


7.8. The competences of the support staff
rendering services related to facilities are
shown to be identified and evaluated to ensure
that their skills remain relevant to stakeholder
needs.

7.9. The quality of the facilities (library,
laboratory, IT, and student services) are shown
to be subjected to evaluation and
enhancement.



8. Output and Outcomes
8.1. The pass rate, dropout rate, and average
time to graduate are shown to be established,
monitored, and benchmarked for improvement.




8.2. Employability as well as self-employment,
entrepreneurship, and advancement to further
studies, are shown to be established,
monitored, and benchmarked for improvement.
                   Criterion                       Strengths   Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
8.3. Research and creative work output and
activities carried out by the academic staff and
students, are shown to be established,
monitored, and benchmarked for improvement.



8.4. Data are provided to show directly the
achievement of the programme outcomes,
which are established and monitored.




8.5. Satisfaction level of the various
stakeholders are shown to be established,
monitored, and benchmarked for improvement.
                                                                                                                    Appendix C




                                     AUN-QA ASSESSMENT PLANNING AT PROGRAMME LEVEL


AUN-QA Assessment No.: 99th AUN-QA Assessment at AUN University                  Date of Assessment: 1 – 3 August 2019


Name of Programme Assessed: Bachelor Degree in Manufacturing Engineering


Name of University: AUN University


Name of Faculty/School: Faculty of Engineering


Name of Management Representative/Designation: Dr Ali Ahmad/Head of Department   e-mail: ahmad@aun.com


Name of Assessors:    Dr. Tommy Lee, University of SEA
                      Dr. Amir Hamzeh, University of Northeast
                    Criterion                            Strengths            Interview Questions     Sources of Evidence      Areas for Improvement

1. Expected Learning Outcomes
1.1. The programme to show that the expected        The established          What educational         Programme                Consider to place greater
learning outcomes are appropriately formulated      learning outcomes        taxonomy is used in      specification            emphasis on the higher
in accordance with an established learning          are aligned to the       writing the expected                              levels of a learning
taxonomy, are aligned to the vision and mission     requirements of the      learning outcomes?       University and faculty   taxonomy (e.g., on
of the university, and are known to all             National                                          websites                 knowledge analysis and
stakeholders.                                       Accreditation Board                                                        construction).
                                                    as well as referenced                             Curriculum review
                                                    to ABET and                                       minutes and
                                                    prominent university                              documents
                                                    in USA, UK, Australia
                                                    and Singapore. The
                                                    expected learning
                                                    outcomes are revised
                                                    every 4 years with
                                                    the latest revision in
                                                    2018.

1.2. The programme to show that the expected        Course learning                                   Programme
learning outcomes for all courses are               outcomes are                                      specification
appropriately formulated and are aligned to the     formulated and are
expected learning outcomes of the programme.        clearly mapped to the                             Curriculum review
                                                    programme learning                                minutes and
                                                    outcomes.                                         documents
1.3. The programme to show that the expected        The expected             How do the generic       Programme                Need there be more
learning outcomes consist of both generic           learning outcomes        learning outcomes meet   specification            specific (3rd and 4th year)
outcomes (related to written and oral               are established and      the needs of the                                  courses that the
communication, problem-solving,                     integrated for both      employers?                                        programme can offer?
information technology, teambuilding skills, etc)   specific and generic
and subject specific outcomes                       skills and knowledge
(related to knowledge and skills of the study       using matrix of
discipline).                                        competencies as
                                                    documented in the
                                                    new curriculum 2018.
                    Criterion                            Strengths           Interview Questions   Sources of Evidence   Areas for Improvement
1.4. The programme to show that the                 Stakeholder’s inputs    How the needs of the   Surveys and tracer    Perhaps feedback from
requirements of the stakeholders, especially        (meeting with           stakeholders are       reports               external stakeholders
the external stakeholders, are gathered, and that   stakeholders on 28      gathered?                                    and potential employers
these are reflected in the expected learning        August 2017) are                                                     can be boosted.
outcomes.                                           gathered and
                                                    reflected in the
                                                    expected learning
                                                    outcome documented
                                                    in the new curriculum
                                                    2018.

1.5. The programme to show that the expected
learning outcomes are achieved by
the students by the time they graduate.
                                                                                           Appendix D




                                   AUN-QA ASSESSMENT REPORT AT PROGRAMME LEVEL

AUN-QA Assessment No.:                                               Date of Assessment:


Name of Programme Assessed:


Name of University:


Name of Faculty/School:


Name and Designation of Management Representative:                   e-mail:


Name of Assessors:
Report Summary

This report is based on information provided in the self-assessment report (SAR), evidences, site tours, and interviews with selected
stakeholders including academic staff, support staff, students, alumni, and employers. It should be read together with the preliminary
findings presented at the closing ceremony where key strengths and areas for improvement were highlighted.

The AUN-QA assessment at programme level covers eight criteria. Each criterion is assessed based on a seven-point scale. A
summary of the assessment results for the xxx programme at xxx university, is as follows:

                                             Criterion                                                   Score
          1. Expected Learning Outcomes
          2. Programme Structure and Content
          3. Teaching and Learning Approach
          4. Student Assessment
          5. Academic Staff
          6. Student Support Services
          7. Facilities and Infrastructure
          8. Output and Outcomes
          Overall Verdict

Based on the assessment results, the XXX programme at xxx university fulfills/ does not fulfill the AUN-QA requirements to be
awarded the AUN-QA certificate. The overall quality assurance implemented by the programme is Absolutely Inadequate/
Inadequate and Improvement is Necessary/ Inadequate but Minor Improvement Will Make It Adequate/ Adequate as Expected/
Better Than Adequate/ Example of Best Practices/ Excellent (Example of World-class or Leading Practices).
                       Criterion                                             Strengths                               Areas for Improvement

1. Expected Learning Outcomes
1.1. The programme to show that the expected               Assessors to provide comments on the           Assessors to provide suggestions for areas
learning outcomes are appropriately formulated in          programme’s strengths for the criterion as a   for improvement for the criterion as a whole or
accordance with an established learning taxonomy,          whole or for each requirement separately.      for each requirement separately.
are aligned to the vision and mission of the university,
and are known to all stakeholders.


1.2. The programme to show that the expected
learning outcomes for all courses are appropriately
formulated and are aligned to the expected learning
outcomes of the programme.



1.3. The programme to show that the expected
learning outcomes consist of both generic outcomes
(related to written and oral communication, problem-
solving, information technology, teambuilding skills,
etc) and subject specific outcomes (related to
knowledge and skills of the study discipline).

1.4. The programme to show that the requirements of
the stakeholders, especially the external
stakeholders, are gathered, and that these are
reflected in the expected learning outcomes.



1.5. The programme to show that the expected
learning outcomes are achieved by the students by
the time they graduate.
                      Criterion                                           Strengths                               Areas for Improvement

2. Programme Structure and Content
2.1. The specifications of the programme and all its    Assessors to provide comments on the           Assessors to provide suggestions for areas
courses are shown to be comprehensive, up-to-date,      programme’s strengths for the criterion as a   for improvement for the criterion as a whole or
and made available and communicated to all              whole or for each requirement separately.      for each requirement separately.
stakeholders.



2.2. The design of the curriculum is shown to be
constructively aligned with achieving the expected
learning outcomes.




2.3. The design of the curriculum is shown to include
feedback from stakeholders, especially external
stakeholders.




2.4. The contribution made by each course in
achieving the expected learning outcomes is shown
to be clear.




2.5. The curriculum to show that all its courses are
logically structured, properly sequenced (progression
from basic to intermediate to specialised courses),
and are integrated.
                      Criterion                                            Strengths                               Areas for Improvement
2.6. The curriculum to have option(s) for students to
pursue major and/or minor
specialisations.




2.7. The programme to show that its curriculum is
reviewed periodically following an established
procedure and that it remains up-to-date and relevant
to industry.



3. Teaching and Learning Approach
3.1. The educational philosophy is shown to be           Assessors to provide comments on the           Assessors to provide suggestions for areas
articulated and communicated to all stakeholders. It     programme’s strengths for the criterion as a   for improvement for the criterion as a whole or
is also shown to be reflected in the teaching and        whole or for each requirement separately.      for each requirement separately.
learning activities.



3.2. The teaching and learning activities are shown to
allow students to participate responsibly in the
learning process.




3.3. The teaching and learning activities are shown to
involve active learning by the students.
                      Criterion                                             Strengths                               Areas for Improvement
3.4. The teaching and learning activities are shown to
promote learning, learning how to learn, and instilling
in students a commitment for life-long learning (e.g.,
commitment to critical inquiry, information-processing
skills, and a willingness to experiment with new ideas
and practices).

3.5. The teaching and learning activities are shown to
inculcate in students, new ideas, creative thought,
innovation, and an entrepreneurial mindset.




3.6. The teaching and learning processes are shown
to be continuously improved to ensure their relevance
to the needs of industry and are aligned to the
expected learning outcomes.



4. Student Assessment
4.1. A variety of assessment methods are shown to         Assessors to provide comments on the           Assessors to provide suggestions for areas
be used and are shown to be constructively aligned        programme’s strengths for the criterion as a   for improvement for the criterion as a whole or
to achieving the expected learning outcomes and the       whole or for each requirement separately.      for each requirement separately.
teaching and learning objectives.



4.2. The assessment and assessment-appeal
policies are shown to be explicit, communicated to
students, and applied consistently.
                       Criterion                           Strengths   Areas for Improvement
4.3. The assessment standards and procedures for
student progression and degree completion, are
shown to be explicit, communicated to students, and
applied consistently.



4.4. The assessments methods are shown to include
rubrics, marking schemes, timelines, and regulations,
and these are shown to ensure validity, reliability, and
fairness in assessment.



4.5. The assessment methods are shown to measure
the achievement of the expected learning outcomes
of the programme and its courses.




4.6. Feedback of student assessment is shown to be
provided in a timely manner.




4.7. The student assessment and its processes are
shown to be continuously reviewed and improved to
ensure their relevance to the needs of industry and
alignment to the expected learning outcomes.
                       Criterion                                             Strengths                               Areas for Improvement

5. Academic Staff
5.1. The programme to show that academic staff             Assessors to provide comments on the           Assessors to provide suggestions for areas
planning (including succession, promotion, re-             programme’s strengths for the criterion as a   for improvement for the criterion as a whole or
deployment, termination, and retirement plans) is          whole or for each requirement separately.      for each requirement separately.
carried out to ensure that the quality and quantity of
the academic staff fulfil the needs for education,
research, and service.

5.2. The programme to show that staff workload is
measured and monitored to improve the quality of
education, research, and service.




5.3. The programme to show that the competences of
the academic staff are determined, evaluated, and
communicated.




5.4. The programme to show that the duties allocated
to the academic staff are appropriate to qualifications,
experience, and aptitude.




5.5. The programme to show that promotion of the
academic staff is based on a merit system which
accounts for teaching, research, and service.
                       Criterion                                             Strengths                               Areas for Improvement
5.6. The programme to show that the rights and
privileges, benefits, roles and relationships, and
accountability of the academic staff, taking into
account professional ethics and their academic
freedom, are well defined and understood.


5.7. The programme to show that the training and
developmental needs of the academic staff are
systematically identified, and that appropriate training
and development activities are implemented to fulfil
the identified needs.


5.8. The programme to show that performance
management including reward and recognition is
implemented to assess academic staff teaching and
research quality.



6. Student Support Services
6.1. The student intake policy, admission criteria, and    Assessors to provide comments on the           Assessors to provide suggestions for areas
admission procedures to the programme are shown            programme’s strengths for the criterion as a   for improvement for the criterion as a whole or
to be clearly defined, communicated, published, and        whole or for each requirement separately.      for each requirement separately.
up-to-date.



6.2. Both short-term and long-term planning of
academic and non-academic support services are
shown to be carried out to ensure sufficiency and
quality of support services for teaching, research, and
community service.
                      Criterion                                             Strengths                               Areas for Improvement
6.3. An adequate system is shown to exist for student
progress, academic performance, and workload
monitoring. Student progress, academic
performance, and workload are shown to be
systematically recorded and monitored. Feedback to
students and corrective actions are made where
necessary.
6.4. Co-curricular activities, student competition, and
other student support services are shown to be
available to improve learning experience and
employability.



6.5. The competences of the support staff rendering
student services are shown to be identified for
recruitment and deployment. These competences are
shown to be evaluated to ensure their continued
relevance to stakeholders needs. Roles and
relationships are shown to be well-defined to ensure
smooth delivery of the services.
6.6. Student support services are shown to be
subjected to evaluation, benchmarking, and
enhancement.




7. Facilities and Infrastructure
7.1. The physical resources to deliver the curriculum,    Assessors to provide comments on the           Assessors to provide suggestions for areas
including equipment, material, and information            programme’s strengths for the criterion as a   for improvement for the criterion as a whole or
technology, are shown to be sufficient.                   whole or for each requirement separately.      for each requirement separately.
                       Criterion                           Strengths   Areas for Improvement
7.2. The laboratories and equipment are shown to be
up-to-date, readily available, and effectively
deployed.




7.3. A digital library is shown to be set-up, in keeping
with progress in information and communication
technology.




7.4. The information technology systems are shown
to be set up to meet the needs of staff and students.




7.5. The university is shown to provide a highly
accessible computer and network infrastructure that
enables the campus community to fully exploit
information technology for teaching, research,
service, and administration.


7.6. The environmental, health, and safety standards
and access for people with special needs are shown
to be defined and implemented.
                         Criterion                                               Strengths                               Areas for Improvement
7.7. The university is shown to provide a physical,
social, and psychological environment that is
conducive for education, research, and personal well-
being.



7.8. The competences of the support staff rendering
services related to facilities are shown to be identified
and evaluated to ensure that their skills remain
relevant to stakeholder needs.



7.9. The quality of the facilities (library, laboratory, IT,
and student services) are shown to be subjected to
evaluation and enhancement.




8. Output and Outcomes
8.1. The pass rate, dropout rate, and average time to          Assessors to provide comments on the           Assessors to provide suggestions for areas
graduate are shown to be established, monitored,               programme’s strengths for the criterion as a   for improvement for the criterion as a whole or
and benchmarked for improvement.                               whole or for each requirement separately.      for each requirement separately.




8.2. Employability as well as self-employment,
entrepreneurship, and advancement to further
studies, are shown to be established, monitored, and
benchmarked for improvement.
                       Criterion                          Strengths   Areas for Improvement
8.3. Research and creative work output and activities
carried out by the academic staff and students, are
shown to be established, monitored, and
benchmarked for improvement.



8.4. Data are provided to show directly the
achievement of the programme outcomes, which are
established and monitored.




8.5. Satisfaction level of the various stakeholders are
shown to be established, monitored, and
benchmarked for improvement.
                                                                                                                               Appendix E




                                     AUN-QA ASSESSMENT REPORT AT PROGRAMME LEVEL


AUN-QA Assessment No.: 99th AUN-QA Assessment at AUN University                        Date of Assessment: 1 – 3 August 2019



Name of Programme Assessed: Bachelor Degree in Manufacturing Engineering



Name of University: AUN University


Name of Faculty/School: Faculty of Engineering


Name and Designation of Management Representative: Dr. Ali Ahmad, Head of Department   e-mail: aliamhad@aun.com


Name of Assessors:    Dr Shri Kishen, University of Singapore (lead assessor)
                      Dr Amir Hamzeh, University of Northeast (co-assessor)
Report Summary

This report is based on the information provided in the self-assessment report (SAR), evidences, site tours, and interviews with
selected stakeholders including academic staff, support staff, students, alumni, and employers. It should be read together with the
preliminary findings presented at the closing ceremony where the key strengths and areas for improvement were highlighted.

The AUN-QA assessment at programme level covers 11 criteria. Each criterion is assessed based on a seven-point scale. The
summary of the assessment results for the xxx programme at xxx university is as follows:

                                              Criterion                                                Score
          1. Expected Learning Outcomes                                                                  4
          2. Programme Structure and Content                                                             5
          3. Teaching and Learning Approach                                                              4
          4. Student Assessment                                                                          5
          5. Academic Staff                                                                              5
          6. Student Support Services                                                                    5
          7. Facilities and Infrastructure                                                               4
          8. Output and Outcomes                                                                         5
          Overall Verdict                                                                       Adequate as Expected

Based on the assessment results, the xxx programme at xxx university fulfilled the AUN-QA requirements to be awarded the AUN-
QA certificate for a successful programme-level assessment. The overall quality assurance implemented for the programme is
Adequate as Expected.
                   Criterion                                            Strengths                                      Areas for Improvement

1. Expected Learning Outcomes
1.1. The programme to show that the expected        The expected learning outcomes (ELOs) are              The formulation of expected learning outcomes
learning outcomes are appropriately formulated      aligned to the requirements of the National            may be based on an educational taxonomy and
in accordance with an established learning          Accreditation Board. They also reference to            the basic rules in writing the expected learning
taxonomy, are aligned to the vision and mission     ABET requirements, and are benchmarked                 outcomes should be observed.
of the university, and are known to all             against prominent universities in the USA, UK,
stakeholders.                                       and Australia. The ELOs are revised every four
                                                    years with the latest revision being in 2018.

1.2. The programme to show that the expected        The course learning outcomes of the                    The alignment between the course learning
learning outcomes for all courses are               programmes are formulated and aligned to the           outcomes and programme learning outcomes
appropriately formulated and are aligned to the     programme learning outcomes and mapped as              may need to be reviewed in regular intervals.
expected learning outcomes of the programme.        shown in Table 1.4

1.3. The programme to show that the expected        The expected learning outcomes are established         There is a lack of core courses and electives
learning outcomes consist of both generic           and integrated for both specific and generic skills    contributing to the programme generic expected
outcomes (related to written and oral               and knowledge using matrix of competencies as          learning outcomes 6, 7, 8 and 9 as documented
communication, problem-solving, information         documented in the new curriculum 2018.                 in the curriculum map.
technology, teambuilding skills, etc) and subject
specific outcomes (related to knowledge and
skills of the study discipline).
1.4. The programme to show that the                 Stakeholder’s inputs (meeting with stakeholders        The relationship between the stakeholders’ needs
requirements of the stakeholders, especially the    on 23 August 2017) are gathered and reflected in       and the programme expected learning outcomes
external stakeholders, are gathered, and that       the expected learning outcome documented in            should be mapped so that the rationale and
these are reflected in the expected learning        the new curriculum 2018.                               impact of change can be well established and
outcomes.                                                                                                  communicated.


1.5. The programme to show that the expected        Achievement of expected learning outcomes are          The programme may also undertake surveys of
learning outcomes are achieved by the students      evident in students at the time of graduation. This    students a few years after graduation to reassure
by the time they graduate.                          is validated by the final year capstone project that   that expected learning outcomes have been
                                                    involves students with an industrial partner.          achieved.
                                                                                       Appendix F




    AUN-QA ASSESSMENT FEEDBACK REPORT AT PROGRAMME LEVEL


AUN-QA Programme Assessment No.:                                   Date of Assessment:


Name of University/Faculty/School:


Name of Programme Assessed:


Name and Designation of Management Representative:                 e-mail:


Name of Assessors:


Feedback on SAR preparation (interpretation of criteria, writing of SAR, gathering of evidences,
problems faced in preparing the SAR, etc):




Feedback on assessment process (process: pre-assessment preparation, site assessment, final
assessment results, presentation; assessment: objectivity, independence, evidence-based;
programme: itinerary, activities, duration):




Feedback on usefulness of assessment report (for self-improvement, planning, and
benchmarking purposes):




Please consider to provide suggestions for the AUN-QA to improve its assessment process.
                                 ADDENDUM:
    Supplementary Notes for the Assessment of Postgraduate Programmes with
                        Dominant Research Component


This addendum is prepared to serve as a supplement to the “Guide to AUN-QA
Assessment at Programme Level Version 4.0” that provides additional notes and
interpretations for assessment of the research component for the postgraduate
programmes. In addition, it may also be used for assessment of programmes where
the research component is dominant or is not given any credit rating or credit hour to
represent its learning loads. Similar to the requirements for all criteria in this guide, this
addendum can also be referred to and read together when writing the self-assessment
report of such programmes.


Introduction
In general, postgraduate programmes are programmes that require an undergraduate
degree or equivalent to be considered for entry which leads to qualifications such as
a postgraduate diploma, a master’s degree or a doctoral degree. Postgraduate
degrees are taken for a number of reasons, such as to move into academia and
research, to have certain in-depth specialisation or to change track entirely.
A doctoral degree refers to a degree that incorporates significant research component
which qualifies the holder to teach at university level in the degree's field, or to work in
a specific profession. In most countries, the duration of study is typically 3-4 years,
even though some may take a longer period to complete their study. There are mainly
two types of doctoral degrees, which are as follows:
   1. Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Degree

       It refers to an academic degree focused on original research, data analysis, and
       the evaluation of theory. The programme structure ranges from a full research
       to research as main and compulsory graduation component coupled with a set
       of courses as requisites, typically used as one of the criteria for confirmation of
       Ph.D. candidature.

            This type of programme seeks to evaluate the relevance of seminal,
       current, and emerging theories within the field, to analyse theories and
       concepts within the field, to assess identified gaps in the current research
       literature and advance the body of knowledge in the field through original
       research. Eventually, the research outcomes are communicated to an
       academic audience and general stakeholders.

   2. Professional Doctorates

       This type of degrees focuses on applying research to practical problems,
       formulating solutions to complex issues, and designing effective professional
       practices within the field of study. Examples are programmes awarding Doctor
       of Business Administration (DBA) degree, Doctor Engineering (D.Eng.) degree
       and Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) degree. The common programme structure
       would be a combined set of courses rated in credit units or credit hours coupled
       with the main project as a compulsory programme component. Typically, the
       programme structure comprises a significant percentage of credit units or credit
       hours for courses that serve as the eligibility criteria to complement the main
       project and to complete the study.

       Hence, the aim of the programme is to evaluate the relevance of current and
       emerging theories and practices within the field, to formulate effective solutions
       to complex, real-world problems common to the field and to design rigorous
       research that expands the professional body of knowledge in the field. Then,
       the outcomes of the research are applied to the practical problems in the field
       which could bring about effective and innovative solution to the problem.

Similar to doctoral programmes, a master’s programme can take a number of forms
ranging from a curriculum structure with taught courses and projects to a full research
programme leading to a thesis or dissertation. A master’s programme could be
differentiated from a doctoral programme based on the respective expected learning
outcomes or graduate attributes or qualification’s descriptors, which are of lower level
with smaller number of credit hours or credit units or requiring shorter period to
complete. A master’s degree could also be used to enter a doctoral programme.
Many countries regulate and harmonise these programmes using their national
qualifications frameworks and standards, which require the programme to conform to
certain criteria and mapped to certain qualification levels. As such, Ph.D. and
professional doctorate programmes are typically mapped to a same qualification level,
which is commonly the highest qualification level in the country’s national qualifications
framework. Similarly, a master’s programme with dominant research component can
also be mapped to a designated qualification level in the country’s national
qualifications framework. Globally, the learning outcomes and/or graduate profiles for
both types of programmes may be benchmarked with, among others:
   •   ASEAN Qualifications Reference Framework (AQRF, 2015) — Level 8
       descriptors for doctorate programmes or Level 7 descriptors for master’s
       programmes;
   •   UNESCO’s International Standard Classification of Education (ISCED, 2011)
       — Level 8 for doctoral programmes or equivalent, or Level 7 for master’s
       programmes or equivalent;
   •   European Qualifications Framework (EQF) — Level 8 for doctoral
       programmes or Level 7 for master’s programmes;
   •   Dublin Descriptors (2004) — Third cycle qualification for doctoral programmes
       or second cycle qualification for master’s programmes.
Approach to Assessment Extension to a Postgraduate Programme with Research
Component
In principle, the criteria and outline specified by the “Guide to AUN-QA Assessment at
Programme Level, version 4.0” are still applicable and should be referred to in writing
the programme SAR and in performing the programme assessment of a master’s or
doctorate programme where its research component is dominant. As such, many
requirements and sub-criteria are still be applicable for assessment of a postgraduate
programme, with exception of several sub-criteria which require different contextual
interpretation, particularly for the research component or the doctorate project of the
programme.
The interpretation for assessing such master’s or doctorate programme are presented
in the form of this addendum, with appropriate diagnostic questions and/or sources of
evidence. These diagnostic questions and sources of evidence are listed in addition
to the similar questions and sources of evidence listed in the main section of this guide
for all criteria, thus should be read together with this addendum. Hence, this document
provides specific interpretations for a number of sub-criteria for the purpose of
assessing the research component of the programme.
The AUN-QA Criteria which contain explanatory notes for the terms that require
specific interpretations for the purpose of assessment of research component in the
programme are given in the following sections.


AUN-QA Criterion 1 – Expected Learning Outcomes

 Related Requirements for AUN-QA Criterion 1
 1.1. The programme to show that the expected learning outcomesa are
      appropriately formulated in accordance with an established learning
      taxonomy, are aligned to the vision and mission of the university, and are
      known to all stakeholders.
 1.3. The programme to show that the expected learning outcomesa consist of
      both generic outcomes (related to written and oral communication, problem-
      solving, information technology, teambuilding skills, etc) and subject specific
      outcomes (related to knowledge and skills of the study discipline).
 1.5. The programme to show that the expected learning outcomes are achieved
      by the students by the time they graduateb.


Additional Notes for Assessment of Programme Research Component
    aFormulation of  the “expected learning outcomes” shall consider the national,
    regional and global points of reference of a postgraduate programme. As such,
    elements related to original research, novelty, emerging theories and practice in
    solving real-world problems, etc., in the graduate profile should be assessed and
    benchmarked.
   bThe phrase “achieved by the students by the time they graduate” may include

   student’s contribution after graduation in applying their doctorate-level and other
   employability skills, that may be triangulated with the referred qualification
   descriptors and/or the requirements of stakeholders for the degree.
Diagnostic Questions
   -  What is the source(s) of reference in the formulation of the expected learning
      outcomes?
  - How to ensure that the formulated statements of the expected learning
      outcomes are of higher level than those of the lower degree programme, such
      as a bachelor programme offered by the same department or institution?
  - Does the labour market or stakeholders set specific requirements for the
      graduates of higher degree programmes as compared to the lower degree
      graduates, such as from a bachelor programme of the same department or
      institution?
Sources of Evidence
   -   Benchmarking report for the process of formulating the expected learning
       outcomes
   -   Stakeholders’ input and survey questionnaire
   -   Student’s publication, citations and h-index


AUN-QA Criterion 2 – Programme Structure and Content

 Related Requirements for AUN-QA Criterion 2
 2.1. The specifications of the programme and all its coursesc are shown to be
      comprehensive, up-to-date, and made available and communicated to all
      stakeholders.
 2.2. The design of the curriculum is shown to be constructively alignedd with
      achieving the expected learning outcomes.
 2.4. The contribution made by each coursec in achieving the expected learning
      outcomes is shown to be clear.
 2.5. The curriculum to show that all its coursesc are logically structured, properly
      sequenced (progression from basic to intermediate to specialised courses),
      and are integrated.


Additional Notes for Assessment of Programme Research Component
   cIn the context of planning and delivering the programme research component that

   is aligned to the expected learning outcomes, the term “course” or “courses”
   should be referred to programme activities or/and assessment tasks related to
   monitoring progression and reviewing academic performance of a postgraduate
   student.
               the term “constructive alignment” for the programme research
   consequently,

   component could be shown or demonstrated by mapping between the expected
   learning outcomes of the programme with activities or/and assessment tasks
   related to progress and performance reviews of a doctorate candidate/student.
Diagnostic Questions
   -  How are the expected learning outcomes translated into the programme
      activities or/and assessment tasks?
  - What are the mechanisms and platforms provided for students to present and
      share their research proposals, findings and outcomes as well as to improve
      their research and other required skills?
  - How to monitor progression and review academic performance of a doctorate
      candidate or student?
  - How to review and continually improve the programme activities and
      assessment tasks to ensure constructive alignment with expected learning
      outcomes?
Sources of Evidence
   -   Programme map, and delivery and assessment plans for the programme
       research component
   -   Student assessment records and reports
   -   Programme activity reports
   -   Programme review and quality improvement reports


AUN-QA Criterion 3 – Teaching and Learning Approach

 Related Requirements for AUN-QA Criterion 3
 3.1. The educational philosophy is shown to be articulated and communicated to
      all stakeholders. It is also shown to be reflected in the teaching and learning
      activitiese.
 3.2. The teaching and learning activitiese are shown to allow students to
      participate responsibly in the learning process.
 3.3. The teaching and learning activitiese are shown to involve active learning by
      the students.
 3.4. The teaching and learning activitiese are shown to promote learning, learning
      how to learn, and instilling in students a commitment for life-long learning
      (e.g., commitment to critical inquiry, information-processing skills, and a
      willingness to experiment with new ideas and practices).
 3.5. The teaching and learning activitiese are shown to inculcate in students, new
      ideas, creative thought, innovation, and an entrepreneurial mindset.


Additional Notes for Assessment of Programme Research Component
   eThe  term “teaching and learning activities” for the programme research
   component may include discussion and consultation with the supervisors as well
   as programme activities and assessment tasks that are related to progress
   monitoring and performance reviews of a postgraduate student.
Diagnostic Questions
   -  How does the educational philosophy influence and is reflected in the
      planning and delivery of the programme research component?
  - How is research or project supervision carried out by the research or project
      supervisor(s) and how to monitor its effectiveness?
  - How do the teaching and learning activities enhance independent and
      autonomous learning and help inculcate research skills?
  - How is student’s feedback on the teaching and learning activities for
      programme research component gathered and analysed for improvement?
Sources of Evidence
   -   Programme delivery plan for the programme research component
   -   Students’ feedback on programme activities and quality of supervision
   -   Progress monitoring reports of a doctorate candidature or student.
   -   Programme activity reports and quality improvement reports


AUN-QA Criterion 4 – Student Assessment

 Related Requirements for AUN-QA Criterion 4
 4.1. A variety of assessment methodsf are shown to be used and are shown to be
      constructively aligned to achieving the expected learning outcomes and the
      teaching and learning objectives.
 4.4. The assessment methodsf are shown to include rubrics, marking schemes,
      timelines, and regulations, and these are shown to ensure validity, reliability,
      and fairness in assessment.
 4.5. The assessment methodsf are shown to measure the achievement of the
      expected learning outcomes of the programme and its courses.


Additional Notes for Assessment of Programme Research Component
   fThe term “assessment methods” for the programme research component may

   include semester-based and/or annual progress monitoring and reviews of
   student’s academic performance, as well as the final assessment of the thesis or
   dissertation leading to award of the postgraduate degree. The final assessment of
   the thesis or dissertation, may also be referred to as viva-voce or
   thesis/dissertation defence.
Diagnostic Questions
   -   What are the pre-requisite courses and criteria and other requisites needed to
       be fulfilled by the students before they can graduate from the programme?
   -   How are the academic progress of the students monitored and reviewed and
       how frequent are the students being monitored and reviewed?
   -   What are the criteria for appointment of internal/external examiners for the
       thesis or dissertation?
   -   How is student’s feedback on the assessment methods for programme
       research component gathered and analysed for improvement?

Sources of Evidence
   -   Programme assessment plan for the programme research component
   -   Student progress and assessment reports
   -   Students’ feedback on assessment and evaluation processes of their study
   -   Examiner’s (internal/external) reports on candidate’s/student’s thesis or
       dissertation
   -   Reports of student’s fulfilment of the graduation criteria leading to the award
       of the degree, such as passing the compulsory courses and the research
       proposal defence, and fulfilling the requisites and criteria for journal article
       publication
   -   Student’s thesis or dissertation
   -   Programme assessment reports and quality improvement reports on student’s
       assessment


AUN-QA Criterion 5 – Academic Staff

Related Requirements for AUN-QA Criterion 5
 5.3. The programme to show that the competencesg of the academic staff are
      determined, evaluated, and communicated.
 5.7. The programme to show that the training and developmental needsh of the
      academic staff are systematically identified, and that appropriate training and
      development activities are implemented to fulfil the identified needs.


Additional Notes for Assessment of Programme Research Component
   gThe term “competences” of academic staff appointed to be a supervisor for a

   master’s or doctorate candidate or student should include competence to provide
   an effective supervision for a master’s or doctorate level project. This may include
   skills in providing guidance for the students to carry out their research works based
   on their study plan and monitor the student’s progression as according to the plan
   in order to ensure that they can finish their project as planned.
   hAs such, the phrase “training and developmental needs” of the academic staff

   may include training on how to be an effective supervisor for a master’s or
   doctorate candidate or student.
Diagnostic Questions
   -   Are there plans to equip the academic staff with adequate research and
       supervisory skills?
   -   How are the research and supervisory skill of the academic staff being
       assessed and evaluated?
Sources of Evidence
   -   Training programme for academic staff on research and supervisory skills.
   -   Stakeholders’ input and survey questionnaire

AUN-QA Criterion 6 – Student Support Services
Additional Notes for Assessment of Programme Research Component
    As the academic and non-academic requirements of postgraduate students may
    be different from other students, the AUN-QA Criterion 6, namely Requirements
    6.1, 6.3 and 6.4, may be customised and contextualised accordingly. Due to
    different nature of their study and social life in the campus, postgraduate students
    may require different kind of systems for monitoring their academic progression
    and services in providing support and guidance to them. As such, special
    consideration may be given to certain types of requirement or to specific support
    systems and services that are more relevant to the postgraduate programmes
    and/or frequently used by the postgraduate students.


AUN-QA Criterion 7 – Facilities and Infrastructure
Additional Notes for Assessment of Programme Research Component
    Due to different nature of postgraduate programmes, the postgraduate students
    may require different kind of learning environment and educational eco-system
    that are more conducive to their needs, which may be different from other types
    of programme. Hence, the AUN-QA Criterion 7, namely Requirements 7.1 – 7.7,
    may be customised and contextualised accordingly. As such, special
    consideration may be given to certain types of equipment, infrastructure and
    facilities, that are more relevant to the postgraduate programmes and for the
    postgraduate students.


AUN-QA Criterion 8 – Output and Outcomes

 Related Requirements for AUN-QA Criterion 8
 8.1. The pass rate, dropout rate, and average time to graduatei are shown to be
      established, monitored, and benchmarked for improvement.
 8.2. Employabilityj as well as self-employment, entrepreneurship, and
      advancement to further studies, are shown to be established, monitored, and
      benchmarked for improvement.
 8.3. Research and creative work outputk and activities carried out by the
      academic staff and students, are shown to be established, monitored, and
      benchmarked for improvement.
Additional Notes for Assessment of Programme Research Component
   iThe component “average time to graduate” may be or may not be considered

   based on contexts of the discipline and the country. While average time to
   graduate could indicate programme efficiency and may still be monitored, if
   average time to graduate for a postgraduate programme is not considered
   important in the country’s higher education eco-system of the assessed institution,
   this component may be omitted in the evaluation process for this requirement.
   However, the consideration of this component is subject to the judgement by the
   lead assessor, upon consultation with the chief assessor.
   jThe component “employability” for master’s or doctorate graduates may be or may

   not be considered in the assessment process based on the country’s contexts.
   Even though it may be monitored periodically as one of the programme metrics,
   there may be circumstances that the graduate employability of the programme
   may not be a norm in the country of the assessed institution or viable indicator for
   measurement of the programme achievement. In this case, this component or the
   whole statement in the Requirement 8.2 may be omitted in the evaluation process.
   Alternatively, other “appropriate measures” may be used to monitor the success
   of the postgraduate programme. As such, similar to the Requirement 8.1, the
   consideration of this component or the whole Requirement 8.2 is subject to the
   judgement by the lead assessor, upon consultation with the chief assessor.
   kThe term “research and creative work output” may include any kind of output or

   deliverables produced by the academic staff and students in conjunction with the
   research and creative work activities carried out and performed by the academic
   staff and students involved in the programme. The outputs or deliverables may be
   in form of publication materials such as journal articles, articles or chapters in
   books, technical reports, monographs, artefacts, etc.
Diagnostic Questions
   -   Based on the type and context of programme assessed, what are the
       appropriate data or output that could represent students’ performance in
       research?
   -   What is the relationship between the students’ performance data, such as on
       publication, with attainment of the expected learning outcomes by the
       students and by the programme?
  -
Sources of Evidence
   -   Student enrolment and graduation data by year, including average time to
       graduate
   -   Benchmarking report for research funding, projects and publications
   -   Stakeholders’ satisfaction survey questionnaire and data on research quality
       and output
   -   Student’s publication, citations and h-index
  ASEAN UNIVERSITY NETWORK
   17th Floor, Chaloem Rajakumari 60
          (Chamchuri 10) Building,
       Chulalongkorn University,
        Phayathai Road, Bangkok
              10330, Thailand

Tel: (66 2) 2153640 / 2153642 / 2183256 / 2183258
               Fax: (66 2) 2168808
         Website: www.aun-qa.org
